A defendant was angry at his friend for marrying the defendant's former girlfriend. As the friend was painting his house one afternoon, the defendant fired a shot from his gun at him. Although the shot missed the friend, the bullet struck and killed the friend's daughter. The defendant is subsequently charged with the first-degree murder of the daughter. The relevant statutes in effect in this jurisdiction are as follows:Section 169: Murder in the first degree is the unlawful and intentional killing of a human being with malice aforethought. Section 170: Malice is expressed when there is manifested a deliberate intention to take away the life of another. Which of the following, if established, would provide the defendant with his best defense? He intended only to wound the friend..
In an automobile accident case, the defendant claimed that the plaintiff was contributorily negligent by driving at an excessive speed. The defendant's attorney calls its first witness, who was standing along the side of the road when the plaintiff's and defendant's cars collided. The defendant's attorney asks the witness: "Is it a fact that in your estimation, plaintiff was traveling at a speed of 45 m. p. h. in a 35 m. p. h. speed zone at the time of the accident?" The plaintiff objects. The trial judge should sustain the objection, because the witness is not an adverse witness..
The defendant was on a date when the victim invited him up to her apartment for coffee. The defendant and the victim began to kiss on the couch. The defendant lifted the victim's shirt, and the victim gently pushed the defendant's hand away and then left the couch to make coffee. While the victim was making coffee, the defendant picked up her solid gold ring that she had carelessly left on the living room table. Intending to give it back to her with a diamond in it, he put it into his pocket and got ready to leave. Before the defendant went home, he stopped into a bar. There he met a patron who offered to sell him a two-month-old plasma TV for $200. The patron said that he would take only cash and that he also had some unboxed silverware and jewehy he could sell the defendant from his van, which was parked outside. The patron said, "You better decide fast, because I've got to get out of town right away. " The defendant, who knew that the TV was worth $1,000, gave the patron $200, and the patron gave the defendant the TV, which was not in a box. The patron did not tell the defendant he had just stolen the television from a house down the street. Based on the above facts, for which of the following crimes should the defendant be convicted? Receiving stolen property..
A defendant met her friend at the electronics store where the friend worked. Unbeknownst to the defendant, her friend had taken a music player from the display case and stuffed it in her bag earlier in the day. Knowing that employees are subject to search when they leave the store, the friend surreptitiously put the music player into the defendant's bag. The defendant and her friend proceeded to a local tavern and drank shots of tequila. The friend became intoxicated and forgot to retrieve the stolen music player from the defendant's bag. After leaving the tavern, the defendant proceeded home. Upon opening her bag, she was surprised to see the music player. Believing that the music player had accidentally fallen into her bag at the bar, the defendant planned to return it the next day. The following day, however, the defendant changed her mind and decided to keep it. The defendant is guilty of neither receiving stolen property nor larceny..
A defendant and his friend were drinking heavily one night at the friend's house. They both became intoxicated. After several hours, both the friend and the defendant passed out. In the middle of the night, the defendant awoke with a headache. He went down to the kitchen and poured himself another shot of whiskey. The defendant also felt hungry and decided to make himself some eggs. After fixing his snack, he inadvertently forgot to turn off the stove. A gas leak occurred, causing a fire that burned down the house. If the defendant is charged with arson, he will be found not guilty, because arson requires the presence of malice..
In which of the following situations would the actions of the defendant(s) constitute a burglary? A defendant was walking past a home when he saw the homeowner sitting in a chair near the window. Angered at the homeowner for stealing his former girlfriend, the defendant picked up a large brick that was lying nearby and hurled it through the window, intending to kill the homeowner..
A defendant and a victim were roommates at college. The defendant was playing the role of a serial killer in the school play and asked the victim if she could leave their apartment for a few hours while she rehearsed. The victim agreed but returned to the apartment shortly thereafter because she was curious and wanted to see the defendant rehearse. The victim quietly came back into the apartment and hid behind some curtains in the dining room in order to watch the defendant rehearse. In her role, the defendant earned a large butcher's knife, with which she stabbed the curtains at her "victim. " Unknown to the defendant, the victim, who was hiding behind the curtain, was stabbed in the chest and killed. If the defendant is prosecuted for the victim's death, she should be found not guilty..
A defendant was convicted of assault of a federal officer and imprisoned in a federal penitentiary. While in prison, federal authorities began investigating the murder of the defendant's 11-year- old stepdaughter who was murdered two years earlier. Believing that the defendant was responsible for this killing, federal agents decided to plant an informant at the prison to befriend the defendant and possibly obtain evidence about the crime. In accord with this plan, the federal agents hired a paid informant and placed him in the prison as a fellow inmate, masquerading as an organized crime figure. The informant soon befriended the defendant and learned that he was being threatened by other inmates because of a rumor that he had killed a child. The informant then raised the subject in several conversations, but the defendant repeatedly denied any such involvement. After the defendant started receiving tough treatment from other inmates because of the rumor, the informant offered to protect the defendant but told him, "You have to tell me the truth about what really happened you know, if you want me to help you. " Believing that the informant would protect him from the other inmates, the defendant then admitted to the informant that he had driven his stepdaughter to the desert where he killed her. Based upon this confession, the defendant was then indicted for the first-degree murder of his stepdaughter. Prior to trial, the defendant moves to suppress the statement given to the informant. Should the defendant's motion be granted? Yes, because the confession was coerced by the threat of physical violence, absent protection from the informant that motivated the defendant to confess..
At trial, during the plaintiff's case-in-chief, the plaintiff called as a witness the managing agent of the defendant corporation, who was then sworn in and testified. Defense counsel objected to the plaintiff's questions either as leading or as impeaching the witness. In ruling on the objections, the trial court should overrule all the objections because the witness is adverse to the plaintiff and therefore may be interrogated by leading questions and subjected to impeachment..
A plaintiff sued a defendant in federal court for assault and battery. At trial, the court has allowed the plaintiff to introduce the deposition testimony of a witness, now deceased, that he was with the plaintiff at the time of the incident. The defendant now seeks to impeach the testimony of the witness with his 13-year-old conviction for burglary (for which he served 18 months in prison) for breaking into the home of a neighbor while she was away and taking some of her valuable jewelry. Should the court allow evidence of the conviction? No, unless the court finds, in the interests of justice, that the probative value of the conviction, supported by specific facts and circumstances, substantially outweighs its prejudicial effect..
A homeowner was holding his annual party at his home. His parties attracted a wide variety of diverse individuals. On the night in question, a defendant was loafing at the local bar when a number of the invited guests came in to purchase spirits for the party. The defendant decided to crash the party. He arrived at the homeowner's house around midnight when the party was in full swing. He went in through the front door, which was unlocked, and easily mingled with the other partygoers. During the party, the defendant wandered through the house and came upon a baseball, signed by a famous baseball player, in a glass case. Knowing the ball to be very valuable, the defendant put it under his jacket and made his way down the stairs and out the front door. If the defendant is subsequently charged with burglary, he will probably be found not guilty, because he crashed the party only to have a good time..
A defendant was driving his new sports car at a high rate of speed on a busy city street in the middle of the day. A pedestrian was struck by the defendant's car as she was crossing the street and was seriously injured. A criminal complaint was filed against the defendant and, at trial, he testified that he did not intend to injure anyone, but admitted that he was indifferent as to the consequences of driving recklessly. Based on the defendant's actions and testimony, he should be found guilty of battery..
At trial in a criminal prosecution for theft, the defendant calls a witness to testify that he formerly knew the defendant as an army supply sergeant and that the defendant had turned down many opportunities for black marketeering. Is the witness's testimony admissible? Yes, because a criminal defendant may prove his good character as a basis for inferring conduct..
A victim was leaving his favorite local watering hole and contemplating a late night cheeseburger when he tripped over his own feet and fell on the sidewalk. A few moments later, the victim got up in a daze and stepped into the street, where he was struck by a car driven by the defendant, who was speeding, in violation of a regulation of state law. The victim died in the hospital two hours later. Which of the following is the most serious crime for which the defendant should be found guilty? Involuntary manslaughter..
A defendant was convicted of fraud after a jury trial in state court. The conviction was affirmed on direct appeal. The defendant timely moved for postconviction relief under the Sixth Amendment on the ground that his attorney had provided ineffective assistance of counsel. The trial judge, after a hearing, found that the attorney had performed deficiently by failing to raise a proper objection that would have resulted in exclusion of important prosecution evidence. What more, if anything, must the trial court find in order to sustain the defendant's Sixth Amendment claim? That there is a reasonable probability that the trial's outcome would have been different if the attorney had objected..
Under which of the following situations would the defendant most likely be found guilty of murder? A defendant conspired with two other men to rob a store. On the day of the robbery, the three participants drove to the store in a stolen van. In accordance with their plan, the defendant was to wait in the getaway van while the two men conducted their heist. While the two men were inside the store, the defendant decided to renounce his involvement and participation in the scheme and hurriedly drove away in the van. In his haste, the defendant failed to see a pedesthan jaywalking across the street, and struck and killed the pedestrian..
A defendant has been charged with making a false statement to a federally insured financial institution to secure a loan. At trial, the prosecutor calls the defendant's wife as a willing witness to testify that the defendant told her in confidence that he had misrepresented his assets on the loan application. The defendant objects to his wife's testimony. Should the testimony be admitted? No, because even though the wife is a willing witness, the defendant has the right to exclude confidential marital communications in federal court..
A defendant and his friend were down on their luck. They decided they would make some extra cash by robbing the local liquor store. The friend didn't like guns and decided to use a toy gun, which looked like a real gun, but only shot water. The defendant was aware that the gun was not real. Their plan fixed, they walked into the liquor store late one afternoon when few customers were in the store. The friend produced the toy pistol and pointed it at the customers and the clerk. The defendant ordered everyone to the floor, and the clerk began to rummage behind the counter for the key to the register. While his head was ducked, the clerk pulled a shotgun from behind the counter and fired it at the defendant and his friend. The defendant dived to the side, but his friend was shot and killed. If the defendant is subsequently charged with his friend's death he should be found not guilty, because the clerk was justified in killing the friend..
In which of the following situations would the defendant's intoxication NOT be able to negate his criminal culpability? At his law school graduation party, a defendant drank two six-packs of beer. Around midnight, the defendant was approached by a girl, who asked him to drive her home. Although the girl was only 15 years old, she had the appearance of a woman in her mid-to-late twenties. The defendant, who had had his eye on the girl all night, quickly agreed, and he showed her the way to his car. Once inside, they engaged in sexual intercourse. The age of consent in this jurisdiction is 17 years old for females. The defendant is subsequently arrested and charged with statutory rape..
A defendant was arrested and charged with arson, which in this jurisdiction is defined as the "malicious or intentional burning of any structure or dwelling. " When the defendant was arrested, he was inside a warehouse that was engulfed in flames. At the time he was apprehended, the police found in his possession a book of matches with four matches missing. At trial, the prosecution introduced the book of matches into evidence. Following closing arguments, and before the jury retired for deliberations, the judge gave instructions concerning the law of the case. The judge instructed the jury that it could infer the defendant's intent to set the fire based on the fact that four matches were missing from the matchbook. This instruction was specifically objected to by the defense counsel. The judge's jury instruction concerning the defendant's intent was proper, because it constituted a permissible inference..
Shortly after breaking up with the defendant, a woman began dating the victim. The defendant, who still loved the woman, hated the victim. During a holiday weekend, the woman and the victim arranged to go camping in a federal park. The defendant and his friend decided to beat up the victim while he and the woman were on their camping trip. They went to the campsite where the woman and the victim were staying, but they couldn't find the couple, who were hiking in the woods. Subsequently, the defendant was arrested and charged with conspiracy to commit an assault in a federal park. At trial, the defendant testified that he didn't know he was in a federal park. Moreover, he stated that if he had known, he would never have agreed to the crime. If the jury believes the defendant, he should be found guilty, because federal conspiracy laws do not require the mental retainment ofjurisdictional requirements..
While undergoing a routine plastic surgery procedure, a patient died on the operating table. The patient's husband is suing the plastic surgeon alleging malpractice. Two years later, at trial, the defense called another doctor as an expert witness. The expert witness testified that the patient's death was a freak accident and that the surgeon's performance met the highest standards for medical care. On cross-examination, the plaintiff's attorney brings out the fact that, one week before trial, the expert witness and the surgeon signed an agreement to become partners in an outpatient plastic surgery clinic. The plaintiff's attorney suggests that the expert's testimony was awfully convenient and likely motivated by his desire to maintain a good relationship with the defendant. The defendant then calls another surgeon at the hospital as a witness. He is asked to tell the jury about a conversation he had with the expert inunediately following the patient's death. The witness stated that "the expert told me the patient's death was a textbook example of a freak accident and there was nothing anyone could have done to prevent it. "On objection to this testimony, defendant's attorney seeks a ruling on the admissibility of this question and answer. The trial judge should overrule the objection, because a witness's veracity may be rehabilitated by a prior consistent statement..
A defendant wished to see his high school basketball team win the state championship. During an important game, the defendant pulled out a gun and shot at the leg of a key player on the opposing team. The defendant intended only to inflict a slight wound so that the opposing player would be unable to complete the game. When the defendant fired the shot, he unintentionally hit a player on his own high school team in the chest, killing him instantly. What is the most serious crime that the defendant can be convicted of? Murder..
Government drug officials from a neighboring country contacted a federal agency notifying the agency that drugs were being shipped by express mail next-day service to a defendant. The federal agency contacted the local police with the information regarding the defendant. The local police had long suspected the defendant of dealing drugs. The next day, two undercover police officers drove to the defendant's home and waited outside. A couple of hours later, the officers saw an express mail delivery truck pull up outside the defendant's home. The delivery person carried an express mail box to the front door and rang the doorbell. The officers then witnessed the defendant answer the door and take the package inside. Approximately 20 minutes later, the defendant left the house carrying the express mail box. She walked to her car, placed the package in the trunk, and drove off. The police followed in the squad car and pulled her over at the next traffic signal. The officers placed the defendant under arrest and instructed her to open the trunk. They confiscated the express mail box and opened it. Inside was a package of white powder, which lab tests later confirmed to be cocaine. The defendant was charged with illegal possession of cocaine. While awaiting trial, her attorney filed a motion to suppress the introduction of the cocaine into evidence. The motion will be denied, because the police had probable cause to conduct the search..
In which of the following situations would criminal liability LEAST likely be imposed on the defendant? A defendant is the owner of a car that he permits a friend, whom he knows to have been drinking that night, to drive. As a consequence, the friend is involved in an accident that causes a victim's death..
A defendant was booked on a commercial airline flight. When the defendant arrived at the airport, two undercover police narcotics agents observed him. His appearance and actions led the police to believe that he fit the description of a predetermined profile of a drug courier. The officers approached the defendant and told him they wanted to detain him for questioning. The defendant asked what for, and the police explained that they were narcotics agents assigned to the airport and that he fit the profile of a drug courier. They then asked the defendant to hand over his overnight bag. The defendant refused. The officers then explained that he wouldn't be permitted to board the plane unless they inspected the contents of his bag. The defendant told the officers that he changed his mind and decided not to fly today after all. The officers still requested that the defendant turn his overnight bag over to them. The defendant did so, and then he was given permission to leave the airport. The next day, the police had a dog sniff the defendant's bag for narcotics. The results of this search gave police suspicion to believe that the bag contained narcotics. They opened the defendant's bag and found heroin inside. The defendant was subsequently arrested and charged with unlawful possession of narcotics. At trial, the defendant's attorney moves to prevent introduction of the heroin into evidence. This motion will most likely be granted, because the police did not have probable cause to hold the bag overnight for the search..
A state has adopted a system of bifurcated trials in cases in which a defendant's insanity is in issue. According to the bifurcated trial system, whenever a defendant pleads not guilty to an offense by reason of insanity, two trials will be held. The first one will simply determine whether the defendant has committed the offense for which she is charged. This trial will not address the issue of insanity. In the event that it is found that the defendant has, in fact, committed the offense, then a second trial will be conducted to determine whether she should be exculpated for the criminal action by reason of insanity. A woman was arrested and charged with murder. She pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. At her first trial, the state introduced evidence showing that the woman was having an affair with the victim. When the victim tried to break off their relationship, the woman shot and killed him during a lover's quarrel. The woman was then called to testify in her own behalf. She testified that she had been living with the victim for two years prior to the time of his death. During that period she had undergone psychiatric treatment and was diagnosed as being schizophrenic. She further testified that at the time the victim was killed, she was under the influence of narcotics. While she was hallucinating, she remembered perceiving the victim as a demon and shot at this satanic figure in order to free herself from his evil spell. She then testified that she didn't believe shooting the demon was morally wrong. The prosecuting attorney objected to the woman's testimony. Over such objections, the trial judge admitted the woman's testimony. Was the trial judge correct in admitting the woman's testimony? Yes, because her testimony is relevant to the mental state necessary for the commission of the crime..
A defendant was charged with armed robbery. The defendant had only an eighth-grade education and no legal knowledge. At a pretrial hearing, the defendant told the judge that he was unhappy with the public defender who had been appointed to represent him and that he wanted the judge to appoint another lawyer. The judge refused to appoint another lawyer, telling the defendant, with no further explanation, that his only other choice was to represent himself. The defendant said that he would represent himself at trial then, as "anything [was] better than having this lawyer." The defendant did not raise the subject again, and he represented himself at trial. After hearing overwhelming evidence of the defendant's guilt, the jury convicted him of armed robbery. On appeal, the defendant has requested a new trial on the ground that he was deprived of his right to counsel. Should the appellate court grant the defendant's request? Yes, because the record does not establish a valid waiver of the right to counsel..
A defendant gave a man a gun and instructed him to kill a victim. The man shot and killed the victim with the gun. The man was charged with murder and acquitted. The defendant is now charged with the murder of the victim. He will be able to assert a valid defense if the man's acquittal was based on which of the following? Self-defense..
A relevant fact in a plaintiff's suit is the magnitude of an explosion at an oil refinery one evening. At trial, the plaintiff was asked on direct examination if he remembered the explosion. He replied, "I recall my son running into the home and screaming that the car windows just shattered. " The son was available to testify at trial. The defendant's attorney makes a motion to strike the plaintiff's answer. The trial judge should rule the plaintiff's testimony admissible, whether or not the son is available as a witness..
After weeks of deliberation, the defendant decided to rob a local liquor store. The defendant purchased a ski mask and then went into the liquor store, put his gun into the face of the clerk, and demanded the money from the register. Terrified, the clerk gave him the money from the register. The defendant pocketed the money, grabbed a bottle of tequila off the shelf for his celebration, and then ran back to the car and drove off. About an hour later, the defendant was slowly approaching his hideout in the outskirts of town when a young child suddenly darted in front of the defendant's car. He applied the brakes but couldn't stop in time. The car struck the child, killing her. For the child's death, the defendant should be found guilty of which, if any, of the following crimes? No crime..
A defendant was being prosecuted on a charge of manslaughter in the first degree for causing the death of a 15-year-old girl on whom he had allegedly performed an abortion in his private clinic. A witness for the defendant testified to the defendant's non-culpability at the grand jury proceeding. The witness was later called as a defense witness at the trial. During his direct examination, defendant's attorney asked him, "Is it not true that the defendant could not have performed the abortion on the decedent since he was assisting you in another abortion at the time?" The witness answers in the negative and states that the defendant did, in fact, perform the abortion on the girl. The defendant's attorney then assails the witness's testimony as a recent fabrication, and asks the witness if he had not stated to a grand jury that the defendant was not guilty of performing the abortion, thus causing the death of the girl. The prosecutor objects to this question. The trial judge should rule that this question is unobjectionable, because a party can impeach his own witness by a prior inconsistent statement..
During a defendant's trial for driving while intoxicated, the prosecutor called a toxicologist to testif' as an expert witness. The toxicologist testified that the defendant's blood alcohol level, registered after his arrest, was 0. 14%. At the close of the toxicologist's testimony, the trial judge, over defense objections, instructed the jury that, in accordance with state law, a person with a blood alcohol level greater than 0. 10% is presumed to be intoxicated. No other instruction relating to that presumption was given. A relevant statute in this jurisdiction makes driving while intoxicated a felony and defines intoxication "as a state of severely impaired mental and physical capacity caused by the ingestion of drugs or alcohol. "The defendant was subsequently convicted of driving while intoxicated. On appeal, his conviction should be reversed, because the jury might determine that the instruction in effect relieves the prosecutor of the burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt..
In which situation would the defendant most likely be guilty of murder? The defendant hates her husband after learning that he is having an affair with her best friend. She also knows that her husband owes a man a large amount of money, which he refuses to pay. Before the husband is about to leave for work, the defendant looks out the window and sees the man hiding outside with a gun. The defendant decides not to warn the husband, who then walks outside and is shot and killed by the man..
A husband and his passenger were killed in an auto collision involving a defendant. The husband's wife now brings an action to recover damages for loss of society and companionship. The wife testified that she and her husband had a close relationship and that they were happily married for over 15 years. Then on cross-examination, defendant's counsel asked her if she "was aware of the affair that her husband was having with his passenger?"The wife's attorney immediately objected to this question. The judge should rule that the question is unobjectionable, because plaintiff's knowledge of such an affair was probative of the value to be placed on her loss..
A riot broke out in a city, and many shops had been looted and some had been burned during the riots. Goods of all kinds were in piles or strewn about the sidewalk. During the riot, a defendant was walking along the street when he paused in front of an appliance store. He picked up a portable television set that was lying on the sidewalk and started to walk off quickly. A police officer who was standing in front of the shop rushed after the defendant and arrested him. The defendant, an indigent, was charged with grand larceny, a felony carrying the maximum penalty of seven months imprisonment and a S 1,000 fine. At his arraignment, the judge advised the defendant of his right to have counsel appointed for him. The defendant, however, told the judge that he wanted to represent himself and waive his right to a jury trial. The judge then questioned the defendant at length about his demands. The defendant indicated that he had no previous legal experience. He told the judge that the reason he didn't want a court-appointed attorney to represent him was because he didn't trust lawyers. The judge did not find the defendant's reasons for representing himself to be persuasive and appointed an attorney to represent him. Thereafter, an attorney was appointed by the court to represent the defendant. The attorney told the court that the defendant wanted a non-jury trial. However, at the prosecution's request, the court impaneled a jury. The defendant was subsequently convicted by the jury and sentenced to six months imprisonment. In addition, the defendant was ordered to reimburse the state $450 to cover the cost of his attorney. This reimbursement order was made pursuant to a relevant statute in effect at the time of the defendant's arrest. The defendant appeals both the conviction and the reimbursement order. The appellate court should reverse both the conviction and the reimbursement order because the defendant was denied the right to represent himself..
A defendant was suspected of having burglarized his neighbor's apartment. The neighbor reported that his apartment had been ransacked and several items of clothing had been stolen. During the course of their investigation, two police detectives went to the defendant's place of work to interview him. After being advised of his Miranda rights, the defendant requested permission to call his attorney. Although his attorney was unavailable, the attorney's receptionist admonished him not to say anything. The defendant told the detectives he would have nothing further to say unless his attorney was present. The detectives then asked him if he would accompany them to the police station to answer some questions about an unrelated robbery. The defendant agreed. As they were driving to the police station, the defendant was asked where he had purchased the boots that he was wearing. He refused to answer. When they arrived at the police station, the detectives requested that he sign a waiver of his right to counsel. The defendant replied that he would not sign anything in the absence of his attorney. He was then placed in an interrogation room. Shortly thereafter, the defendant was told he could leave if he would be willing to say where he had purchased his boots. The defendant admitted that he had bought the boots and some shirts from a friend. From this information, the detectives obtained a search warrant and went to the defendant's home where they found the stolen clothing. The defendant is charged with burglarizing the apartment. At trial, the court should suppress the confession because it was obtained in violation of his Fifth Amendment right to counsel, and the clothing because the search warrant was secured as a result of the confession..
A plaintiff sued a defendant for injuries suffered in an automobile accident that occurred six months ago. The plaintiff claimed that the defendant drove through a red light and hit her as she was crossing the street. The posted speed limit at the scene of the accident was 25 m. p. h. In his case-in-chief, the defendant testified that the traffic light was green and he was driving carefully at 20 m. p. h. The plaintiff's attorney did not cross-examine the defendant. Rather, she called a police officer who testified that the defendant told him immediately after the accident that he was going 30 m. p. h. The police officer's testimony is admissible, as offered against the defendant..
The defendant, who was walking on a public street, got into a heated argument with a stranger who had been singing and shouting obscenities while walking near him. The defendant pulled a large serrated hunting knife and stabbed the victim in the chest, killing him. The authorities charged defendant with murder. The defendant argued at trial that he only intended to scare the victim to shut him up, and that he did not have the intent to kill. Is the defendant guilty of murder? Yes, his use of a deadly weapon demonstrated the requisite intent to kill..
A plaintiff filed a tort action in state court but then failed to prosecute the action. The defendant moved to dismiss the action, and the court granted the motion in an order that stated: "The defendant's motion to dismiss is granted, and this action is dismissed with prejudice." The court accordingly entered judgment for the defendant. The plaintiff then filed the same claim against the defendant in federal court, invoking diversity jurisdiction. The defendant has asserted the defense of res judicata (claim preclusion) in its answer. Should the federal court give preclusive effect to the state court judgment? Yes, because a dismissal with prejudice operates as a judgment on the merits..
A defendant had been drinking at a bar for three hours and was visibly intoxicated. A man entered the bar and sat down next to the defendant. After ordering a beer, the man turned to the defendant and said, "Hey buddy, you're sure an ugly looking dude. " The defendant ignored the man's insult and turned to walk away. The man then pushed the defendant against the bar and said, "Your face makes me sick to my stomach. " The defendant then pulled out a razor and slashed the man's throat, killing him. If the defendant is prosecuted for the man's murder, he will most likely be found guilty, because his intoxication was voluntary..
In a trial of a defendant for armed bank robbery, the prosecutor presented overwhelming evidence of guilt. Three tellers identified the defendant as the robber, a latent fingerprint found on the bank counter linked the defendant to the scene, and bank money had been found in the defendant's car. The police had arrested the defendant immediately after the robbery, as the defendant was driving away from the bank. the bank. When the prosecution rested its case, the judge directed the jury to return a verdict of guilty. The defense attorney did not object at the time. The jury withdrew, discussed the case, and agreed to a guilty verdict. The jury returned to the courtroom and announced the guilty verdict. The defense attorney then voiced an objection to the judge's having directed the verdict. The court overruled the objection and sentenced the defendant to 20 years in prison. On appeal, what should the appellate court do? Reverse the conviction, because the judge's action in directing the verdict denied the defendant his constitutional right to a trial by jury..
A defendant is on trial for robbing a particular bank with his best friend. The friend has left the country and cannot be found. The prosecutor has called the friend's mother to testify to a conversation she had with her son the day before he left the country. She implored him not to go, but he said, "Mom, I have to go. I was involved in a robbery at [the bank], and I don't want them to catch me." The prosecutor has other evidence indicating that the defendant and the friend were together on the morning of the robbery. Is the statement by the friend to his mother admissible? Yes, as a statement against penal interest that is not testimonial under the confrontation clause..
At trial in an action for personal injuries suffered in a traffic accident, the plaintiff first calls the defendant as an adverse party. The plaintiff then calls a witness who was a passenger in the plaintiff's car but who also happens to be the defendant's former employer. On direct examination, the witness testifies to how the accident occurred and also expresses his opinion that the defendant is not a truthful person. Which one of the following areas of questioning is most likely to be held beyond the proper scope of cross-examination? The plaintiff's injuries were not as serious as the plaintiff is claiming..
The police arrested a man for the murder of his live-in fiancÃ©e after the woman's dead body was found in the basement of their apartment building. At trial, the prosecution attempted to present the testimony of the victim's out-of-state sister regarding a telephone conversation she had with the defendant. She had called their landline number to talk with her sister on the same day when he had first reported to the police that his fiancÃ© had been missing for five days. The sister had not met the man but had spoken with him briefly a few other times. He told her that her sister "went out all night last night and did not return yet." The prosecution attempted at trial to have the sister testify to the conversation to show the significant discrepancy between his stories to the police and to her. The defense objected, arguing that she couldn't authenticate the conversation because she couldn't identify the speaker as the defendant nor had she ever met him. The prosecution told the court that she felt it was "probably" his voice, which she recollected from the prior talks at the same number. Will the court likely grant the defendant's objection to the testimony? No, because there was sufficient circumstantial evidence to make a reasonable conclusion that the man she talked to was her sister's fiancÃ©..
In which of the following situations is the defendant's conduct most likely to make him criminally responsible for the victim's death? A defendant and a victim were driving to work together when the defendant, without provocation, stabbed the victim in the arm. The defendant then pushed him out of the car. The victim fell along the side of the street and fractured his ankle. Unable to move from the roadway, the victim was fatally crushed a half-hour later by a car driven by a drunk driver..
A state has the following hit-and-run statute in effect:"Any driver of a motor vehicle (including but not limited to automobiles, trucks, buses, or motorcycles) involved in an accident or collision resulting in injury or death to a human being shall immediately stop his or her vehicle at the scene of such accident or collision, render necessary aid to the injured victim, and furnish the police or other person(s) at the scene with his or her name, address and driver's license. Any violation or noncompliance with said statute shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than three years nor more than seven years. "The defendant was involved in an accident that involved injuries to the other driver. The defendant, however, knowing his license to be revoked and afraid of being arrested, fled the scene. However, the victim was able to write down the license number of the defendant's vehicle, and the defendant was rapidly apprehended and put in jail. The defendant is charged with violating the aforementioned statute. He files a motion to dismiss on the grounds that the disclosure requirement of the statute violates his privilege against self-incrimination. His motion should be denied, because in accordance with public policy considerations, the required disclosures are insufficiently testimonial..
A defendant was charged with attempted rape of a victim. The crime allegedly occurred at a party at the defendant's home. During the party, the defendant invited the victim into his bedroom to show her his tattoos. When she entered his bedroom, the defendant ripped off her blouse and threw her onto his bed. He then jumped on the victim and tried to pull off her skirt. When the victim began to scream, some of the guests rushed into the bedroom and pulled the defendant off the victim. At trial, the defendant testified that he wanted to have sexual intercourse with the victim but he believed that she was consenting. The defendant further testified that he had consumed a pint of whiskey earlier in the evening and was intoxicated at the time the incident occurred. If the jury believes that the victim did not consent but also believes that the defendant, in his intoxicated state, honestly believed that she was consenting, the defendant should be found not guilty, because he honestly believed that she was consenting..
A defendant, a nurse at a nursing home, is charged with murdering a resident at the home by adding an allegedly lethal substance to the resident's food. At trial, to prove that the substance added to the resident's food could result in death, the prosecutor, without first calling any witnesses, offers to read into evidence several pages from a standard medical treatise that support the prosecution's claim that the substance the defendant added to the food is lethal. Is the evidence offered admissible? No, because the treatise excerpts were not offered during the examination of a qualified expert..
A husband and wife owned and operated a grocery store. The grocery store was situated in the first floor of the building in which the husband and wife occupied a second-floor apartment. Late one evening, the defendant was walking past the grocery store when he decided to steal the money he heard had been stashed in a cigar box inside the store. The defendant furtively walked to the rear of the building. He then proceeded to open the gate to the fenced-in back yard. Once inside the back yard, the defendant attempted to pry open the back window of the grocery store. Awakened by the barking of his watchdog, the husband went out onto his second- floor back porch and saw the defendant below. The husband yelled at the defendant. Startled, the defendant turned to run when he noticed a large package lying outside the rear door to the store. The defendant picked up the package, which contained baked bread that had been delivered earlier in the evening, and the defendant then ran off. Which of the following crimes will the defendant most likely be convicted of? Larceny and attempted burglary..
A defendant was charged with murder. The killing took place on February 1. At the time that the crime occurred, this jurisdiction required a unanimous verdict of all 12 jury members for a conviction on a capital offense. On November 1, the state legislature enacted a new law requiring a majority vote of seven of 12 jurors to convict on a capital offense. The defendant's trial began on December 1. He was subsequently convicted of murder by an eight- to-four vote. Following the trial, the defendant's attorney filed a motion to set aside the verdict. Which of the following would provide the strongest constitutional grounds to overturn the verdict? The ex post facto clause..
A bank was robbed by a person wearing a yellow ski mask, goggles, and a fluorescent yellow jumpsuit. Three weeks after the robbery, a defendant was arrested and charged with the crime. At trial, the prosecuting attorney seeks to introduce evidence that the defendant had previously committed a robbery wearing a yellow ski mask, goggles, and a fluorescent yellow jumpsuit. Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the proffered evidence should be admissible, to show the identity of the defendant..
A state has recently enacted a statute making it a misdemeanor for any person to smoke a cigarette, cigar, or pipe in any restaurant, bar, cafe, or other establishment within the state. A defendant was tried in state court for violating the anti-smoking statute. The prosecution's evidence consisted of testimony regarding the defendant's cigarette smoking at a restaurant. During the prosecution's case-in-chief, they called a witness who testified to a prior conviction of the defendant that had been excluded by the judge in a pretrial hearing. The judge immediately granted a mistrial and excused the jury. The state prosecutor appealed the ruling under a statute that permitted prosecutorial appeals in such circumstances. The state won the appeal, but the prosecutor decided not to re-prosecute the defendant. However, the city attorney from the city in which the restaurant was located then sought to prosecute the defendant for the same incident under the city's anti-smoking ordinance, which was identical to the state statute. The city attorney planned to call as her only witness a man who testified at the defendant's first trial. The defendant moved to dismiss on the grounds that the prosecution of the city charge would violate his rights against double jeopardy. The court should deny the motion, because the judge granted a mistrial..
As part of his defense to a murder charge, a defendant offered testimony that he was committing a bank robbery in another state on the day that the victim was killed. The testimony is admissible as not hearsay..
In her request for jury instructions on the defense of duress, a defendant argued that she should have the burden of producing some evidence of duress, but the prosecution should be required to disprove duress beyond a reasonable doubt. The trial court denied the defendant's request and instead instructed the jury that the defendant had the burden of proof to establish the defense of duress by a preponderance of the evidence. After she was convicted by the jury, the defendant claims on appeal that the jury instructions regarding duress violated the due process clause. Were the jury instructions correct? Yes, because the defense has the burden of proving the defense of duress by a preponderance of the evidence..
A defendant is on trial for false pretenses. He is charged with selling worthless stock in a dummy corporation to unwitting investors. The defendant is alleged to have masterminded a scheme wherein he set up a nonexistent corporation that never conducted business. The victims were sent prospectuses containing false financial data, which induced them to purchase stock in the phony corporation. At trial, the prosecution seeks to introduce into evidence proof that the defendant had set up 10 other so-called dummy corporations that never existed. This evidence is admissible, to show his intent to defraud..
A defendant was indicted for engaging in a fraudulent investment scheme. At the criminal trial, the prosecutor called a witness who had participated in the scheme with the defendant. The witness testified about the operation of the scheme and was cross-examined by the defendant's attorney. The case resulted in a mistrial. An investor who was allegedly defrauded by the scheme has now brought a civil action against the defendant. She seeks to introduce the witness's testimony from the criminal trial. The witness has testimony from the criminal trial. The witness has moved to a foreign country. Is the witness's testimony in the criminal trial admissible in the civil action? Yes, because it is prior testimony of an unavailable declarant..
One evening, a defendant was at a party and offered to sell an ounce of marijuana to a partygoer. The partygoer agreed to purchase the marijuana and gave the defendant $200. In return, the defendant handed the partygoer a bag containing what appeared to be marijuana. At the time of the transaction, the defendant knew that the bag did not contain marijuana but, instead, was oregano. The defendant is guilty for which, if any, of the following crimes? False pretenses..
A woman had been spreading rumors around town that a defendant was a shoplifter. After the defendant learned about these rumors, she was furious and decided that she would teach the woman to keep her mouth shut. Late that night, the defendant went over to the woman's house with the intent to punch her in the mouth. When the defendant arrived at the woman's home, she peered in the bedroom window and saw the woman asleep in bed. The defendant proceeded to pry open the bedroom window and climbed inside. The defendant then grabbed the woman and punched her in the face and hurriedly fled from the home. The force of the blow fractured the woman's jaw. If the defendant is subsequently prosecuted for burglary, she will most likely be found not guilty, because the defendant did not intend to commit a felony at the time of the breaking and entry..
A man was on trial for murder. Following a recess, the man was in the hallway outside the courtroom speaking with his attorney. During their conversation, the man said, "So what if I killed him, big deal. " The man's statement was overheard by the presiding judge as he was walking down the corridor to the rest room. The judge then informed the prosecuting attorney of the man's comment. After trial is reconvened, the prosecutor calls the judge as a witness to testify to what he heard the defendant tell his attorney. Upon objection by defendant's attorney, may the judge be called as a witness? No, because a judge may not testify in a matter over which he or she is presiding..
In which of the following situations would the defendant not be guilty of homicide? A defendant started a joke about the victim's brother. When word got to the victim about the defendant's joke, the victim became incensed. He rushed to the defendant's home, broke open the door and found the defendant preparing dinner in the kitchen. He immediately said, "I'm going to kill you. " The defendant knew that the victim had been convicted of attempted murder several years ago, and he cringed when the victim took out a gun and pointed it at him. The defendant could have easily darted for the open front door and evaded the victim but, instead, he suddenly pulled a knife from the kitchen wall, lunged at the victim, and stabbed him to death. Unknown to the defendant, the victim's gun was not loaded..
One morning in a Laundromat, a defendant approached a man and said, "If you don't pay me $500 by July 2, I'll beat you to a pulp. " A week later, on July 2, the defendant met the man at a local bar and demanded the money. The man handed the defendant the $500. After receiving the money, the defendant then punched the man in the stomach and hurriedly left the bar. Under modem statutory law, the defendant will most likely be found guilty of which of the following crimes? Extortion and battery..
In a criminal prosecution the government must prove that the defendant affixed a rubber-stamp containing his signature to certain fraudulent letters mailed to the victim. The defendant denied that he stamped the letters. There were no witnesses to the defendant stamping the letters. The prosecution attempted to present a co-worker to testify that defendant maintained sole control of the stamp and used it once daily at 3 p.m. to sign all outgoing letters, and then immediately returned it to his safe. The co-worker would testify that he saw the defendant using the stamp in that habitual manner over a period of many years. The defense objected because this did not prove that the defendant's practice was followed on the dates in question. Under the Federal Rules of Evidence, what will the court rule? The testimony is admissible because habit and routine practice are admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence..
A pedestrian is suing a defendant for injuries she suffered to her leg when the defendant ran the pedestrian over with his motorcycle. On cross- examination of the pedestrian's physician, the defendant's attorney asked him whether or not the pedestrian had told him that the leg that she claimed was injured had been permanently stiff as a result of a former field hockey injury the pedestrian suffered in high school. Upon objection by the pedestrian's attorney, the trial judge should overrule the objection, as a statement made for the purpose of diagnosis or treatment..
A defendant was prosecuted for murder. At trial, the prosecutor called a police detective to testify. The detective, who questioned the defendant at the station house after his arrest, testified that the defendant initially declared his innocence. The detective further testified that when given the opportunity to take a lie detector test, the defendant refused. The defendant's attorney did not object to the detective's testimony. The defendant was convicted and sentenced to prison. The defendant, who is now represented by a new attorney, appeals, claiming that it was error to admit the detective's testimony. The appellate court should find plain error, because the trial court should have acted on its own motion to order reference to the lie detector test stricken..
In which of the following situations is the defendant most likely to be found guilty of manslaughter rather than murder? Not intending to kill, a defendant punches a victim in the face, causing the victim to fall backwards and strike his head on a curb, killing him..
A defendant has been charged with committing the armed robbery of a convenience store. During the defendant's case-in-chief, the defendant called several character witnesses to testify as to his good character. As part of the prosecution's rebuttal, the defendant's ex-wife was called to testify that during their marriage the defendant had a violent temper, beat her frequently, and once threatened her with a knife. The ex-wife's testimony should be ruled inadmissible, because character evidence may not be introduced in this manner..
A defendant was waiting in line to enter a movie theater when he noticed a free movie pass on the ground. The pass had a space where the owner of the pass needed to write in his name. The defendant waited until he got to the cashier's window and presented the pass, seeking a free admission to the movie, and claiming that he received it as a birthday present from a friend. The cashier told him that the passes were invalid unless the holder's name was entered on the pass. The defendant wrote his name on the pass, gave it to the cashier, and was admitted to the theater. The defendant is guilty of no crime..
A defendant was arrested and charged with forgery for unlawfully signing her ex-husband's signature on his pay check. Before trial, the defendant entered into plea bargain negotiations with the prosecution. During the course of these negotiations, the defendant sent a letter to the prosecuting attorney in which she stated: "I don't want to go to jail, so if you recommend a suspended sentence, I'll plead guilty and admit that I forged my ex-husband's signature on the check. " Subsequently, the plea bargain negotiations fell through. Shortly thereafter, the defendant was arrested and charged with forging her ex-husband's signature on his next pay check. She has denied culpability regarding the second forgery charge. At trial for the alleged second forgery, the prosecution seeks to introduce the letter the defendant sent to the prosecution during her earlier plea bargain negotiations. The defendant's attorney objects to the admissibility of the letter. The trial court judge should rule the letter is inadmissible, because it was written during the course of plea bargain negotiations..
A plaintiff brought an action against a defendant for personal injuries resulting from a car accident in which the defendant's car, negligently driven by his cousin, struck the telephone booth in which the plaintiff was resting. Liability is based on a statute making owners of automobiles liable for the negligent actions of those driving with the consent of the owner of the vehicle. The plaintiff offered into evidence the testimony of his doctor that the plaintiff had said to the doctor, when consulting the doctor for treatment, that he felt pain in his back immediately after the accident, and that pain persisted. The trial court should rule this testimony admissible under the hearsay exception of declaration of present bodily condition..
A state has a statute prohibiting the sale of cigarettes to any person under the age of 17. Violation of the statute is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not less than $500 or more than $5,000 The state courts have interpreted this statute as a public welfare offense requiring no particular mental state for its violation. As such, this is a strict liability crime whereby culpability is imposed on a defendant for doing the proscribed act. The defendant, a recovering alcoholic, worked as a cashier at a drug store. Late one night while the defendant was working alone, he got the urge to have a drink. He opened a bottle of rum that the store sold and soon began drinking. A short time later, the defendant became inebriated and passed out. Not long thereafter, a 15-year-old girl entered the store to purchase a package of cigarettes. She took a box off the shelf and went to the cashier's counter to pay for them. Seeing the defendant lying on the floor, unconscious, the girl left the exact price for the cigarettes on the countertop and left the store. If the defendant is prosecuted for violating the state statute, he should be found not guilty, because the defendant was unconscious..
A plaintiff sued a defendant in connection with the dissolution of a partnership they had formed to run a parcel delivery service. They had relied on a business attorney in establishing the business. After the business failed, the plaintiff and the defendant disagreed about their respective obligations. At trial, both have hired new counsel. The plaintiff calls the business attorney to testify to representations the defendant made in meetings she had with the plaintiff and the business attorney. The defendant objects to the business attorney's testimony, invoking the attorney-client privilege. Should the court uphold the defendant's privilege claim? Yes, because either the plaintiff or the defendant may block disclosure of statements made during such meetings..
Under which of the following situations would the defendant not be guilty of the attempted crime at common law? A defendant wanted to receive the proceeds from her insurance policy on her home. After a careful examination of her policy, she decided that the best way for her to collect would be to stage a cooking accident in her own home and have the structure bum down. She decided that bacon would be the best way to do it because all of the extra grease in the pan could easily catch on fire. After cooking the bacon, the defendant left the flame on and left her home. Unbeknownst to the defendant, she left the window open and a breeze blew out the pilot. When the defendant returned home, she found that there was no fire. She was arrested and charged with attempted arson..
In a prosecution of a defendant for receiving stolen property, an informer testified that the defendant sold him a stolen stereo, which the defendant knew had been stolen. During direct examination, the informer testified that he was unemployed but sometimes worked part-time as a substitute teacher. On cross-examination, the defendant's attorney asked the informer if he had recently filed an application to become a police officer. The informer responded affirmatively. The defendant's attorney then asked the informer the following question:"Isn't it true that you hope that by acting as an undercover agent, the police department will overlook the fact that you had two misdemeanor convictions for possession of marijuana?" The prosecuting attorney immediately objected. The trial judge should rule that the defendant's attorney's inquiry concerning the informer's hopes and misdemeanor convictions is proper, as relevant to the informer's possible bias..
One year ago, while driving through an intersection, the defendant's car collided with the plaintiff's car. The plaintiff sued, claiming that the defendant ran a red light. In her case-in-chief, the plaintiff testified that immediately after the accident, a bystander, who was a local resident, screamed at the defendant, "You jerk. . . you drove through the red light. " In his case-in-chief, the defendant now calls a police accident investigator to testify that the plaintiff told him that she "didn't see the color of the light when she entered the intersection because she was dialing a number on her cell phone. "The investigator's testimony should be admitted, because the plaintiff's inconsistent statement has bearing on her credibility..
A defendant was charged with attempting to possess and distribute narcotics. The defendant was arrested after allegedly trying to purchase several kilos of heroin from an undercover government agent. At trial, the undercover agent testified about the defendant's efforts to arrange the drug transaction. The defendant's defense, on the other hand, consisted entirely in attacking the undercover agent's credibility. During his summation, the prosecuting attorney, over defendant's objections, stated that he had produced the only witness who was willing to take the stand and testify to what occurred at the meeting when the undercover agent arrested the defendant. Based on the undercover agent's uncontradicted testimony, the prosecuting attorney urged the jury to convict the defendant. The defendant was convicted and, on appeal, argued that the judge erred in permitting the prosecutor's statement. The defendant's conviction should be reversed, because the prosecutor's remarks constituted improper comment about the defendant's right to testify..
In which of the following situations would the defendant most likely be found NOT GUILTY of robbery? A defendant broke into a house and took a stereo system. After he had placed the system in his car and was about to leave, the homeowner came home and saw him. She raced to the car and started to hit the defendant through the open window in an attempt to get her stereo back. The defendant punched her in the nose and drove away with the system..
At the close of all the evidence in a jury trial, Defendant moves for a directed verdict. After much argument, the court denies the motion. Subsequently, the jury returns a verdict for Plaintiff. The day after the jury returns its verdict, the court enters judgment for Plaintiff. One week later, Defendant moves to set aside the verdict and have judgment entered in accordance with its motion for directed verdict. In the motion, Defendant raises arguments that were not raised at trial. Plaintiff's counsel objects to the court even hearing the motion to set aside the verdict. Should the court consider the motion? Yes, because Defendant had ten days after the jury returned its verdict within which to move to set aside the verdict..
A defendant charged with homicide had a long and tortured history of mental illness. He related several outrageous paranoid fantasies to the authorities and was sent to a mental hospital for evaluation of his ability to stand trial. The doctors reported that the only hope to restore the defendant to relative normalcy where he could stand trial was to administer widely-used anti-psychotic medicine. The man was also a danger to himself and others, and the medicine was in his medical best interests. The defendant asserted that the administration of drugs against his will would violate his liberty interest to substantive due process. Will the court likely order that the defendant should be involuntarily administered the anti-psychotic medications? Yes, the administration of medications to render the defendant capable of standing trial, without serious side effects, is an important governmental interest, and even more so in a homicide case..
A defendant is on trial for robbery. The defendant's attorney plans to call a witness. Nine years earlier, the witness had been convicted of misdemeanor battery. The defendant's attorney has filed a motion disallowing the prosecution from questioning the witness regarding this prior conviction. The motion will likely be granted, as a matter of right..
A state enacted a statute making it illegal to knowingly sell, purchase, or in anyway distribute any form of tobacco to a minor. Violation of the statute was a misdemeanor punishable by a $500 fine and up to 30 days in jail. After the statute's enactment, a defendant sold a pack of cigarettes to a girl who was 17 years of age. Before selling the product to the girl, the defendant carefully examined the girl's driver's license, which indicated that she was, in fact, 17 years old. The defendant nevertheless made the sale because he erroneously believed the age of majority to be 17. The defendant is subsequently charged with violation of the statute, and his mistake is honestly held to have been made. Such a mistake should result in his acquittal, because he did not possess the requisite mens rea..
A defendant is on trial for kidnapping. The victim has testified that one of the kidnappers referred to the other as "Speed." The prosecutor calls a jail employee to testify that, while the defendant was in jail awaiting trial, other inmates addressed the defendant as "Speed." Is the jail employee's testimony admissible? No, because it is hearsay not within any exception. exception..
A defendant was driving his car recklessly at a high rate of speed through a residential neighborhood. He was traveling at a speed of over 100 M. P. H. when he lost control of the car and jumped a curb, striking a woman who was walking along the sidewalk. As a result of the collision, the woman suffered severe internal injuries and fractured both legs. She was hospitalized for 11 months and became permanently disabled. If the defendant is charged with attempted murder, he should be found not guilty, because the defendant did not intend to kill the woman..
Regarding a deposition in a civil suit, which of the following is/are true? I. A deposition of a person against whom another person contemplates filing an action may be compelled by the party contemplating the action, without leave of court, before the action is filed. II. A deposition of the defendant in an action may be taken by the plaintiff without service of a subpoena on the defendant. III. A deposition may be taken even though all the testimony secured by it will be inadmissible at the trial. II and III only..
A defendant was arrested and charged with involuntary manslaughter for causing a vehicular homicide. A grand jury was convened, and various witnesses were subpoenaed. At the grand jury, a witness was asked the following question by the prosecuting attorney: "Is it not true that 20 minutes after the accident you told the police that the defendant's car went through the red light?" He answered, "Yes. "The defendant was also subpoenaed to appear before the grand jury. The defendant was represented by counsel at the grand jury hearing. During questioning he was shown the witness's statement from his testimony. No objection was made to the introduction of the witness's statement. At the defendant's trial, the prosecuting attorney seeks to introduce into evidence the witness's statement from the deposition taken at the grand jury hearing. The defendant's attorney objects to this proffer of evidence. The objection at trial will be granted, because the statement is hearsay not within any recognized exception..
A defendant was arrested for the armed robbery of a liquor store. The defendant was taken directly from the scene of the crime in a patrol car to the police station where he was placed, still handcuffed, in an interview room. He waited for about an hour, and a detective finally came in. The detective gave the defendant his Miranda warnings, and the defendant agreed to sign the waiver and speak to the detective. The defendant then confessed to the robbery. Which of the following allegations would be LEAST helpful in suppressing his statement? The defendant had a private lawyer on retainer at the time he gave his statement..
A defendant was arrested and charged with conspiracy to receive stolen property. At his arraignment, the defendant was represented by counsel. He was then released after posting bond. Following his release, the defendant resumed his job as a bartender at a local bar. Three weeks before the defendant's scheduled trial, an informant entered the bar. After a few drinks, the informant began conversing with the defendant, who was on duty at the time. Unknown to the defendant, the man was a paid police informant. During the course of their conversation, the informant told the defendant that he had read about his arrest in the newspapers and questioned the defendant about the names of his accomplices. Unsuspectingly, the defendant made some admissions, which the informant then passed on to the prosecuting attorney. At trial, the prosecution tried to introduce into evidence the defendant's admissions. The defendant's motion to exclude this offer of proof will most likely be granted, because the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to counsel was violated..
A defendant was arrested and prosecuted for the crime of false pretenses. At trial, the defendant testified that she prophesied the victim's imminent death. The defendant admitted that she told the victim she could save him if he brought a large sum of money wrapped in a handkerchief to a ritual. After the ritual, the defendant returned the handkerchief to the victim filled with waste paper rather than the money. After the defendant was convicted of false pretenses, she moved for a new trial and offered the affidavits of several jurors who sat on the case. An affidavit containing which of the following facts will most likely furnish the defendant's best basis for securing a new trial? A juror, in violation of the court's instructions, read a newspaper article implicating the defendant in several other similar schemes..
A defendant is arrested and charged with shoplifting. He claims that he intended to pay for the item he took and requests an attorney and a jury trial. Both requests are denied by the judge, and the defendant is found guilty. The maximum penalty for shoplifting is a $500 fine and six months in jail. The defendant is sentenced to three months in jail, which he is allowed to serve on weekends in the county detention center. The defendant claims that his constitutional rights have been violated. Is he correct? Yes, because the defendant was denied the right to counsel..
A defendant entered a department store and took the elevator to the eighth-floor toy department. He went there intending to purchase a new game. The defendant, who only had $8. 00 in his possession, saw that the game he wanted was selling for $10. 00 Realizing that he did not have enough money to pay for the game, he ripped the $10. 00 price tag off the box. While no one was looking, the defendant then took the $7. 00 sticker from another game and placed it on the box. He then purchased the game for $7. 00 and walked out of the store. Which one of the following crimes may the defendant be convicted of? False pretenses..
A defendant was employed by a railroad company as a watchman at its crossing, to give warning to the public of approaching trains. Late one evening, he fell asleep in his kiosk and failed to warn of the approach of an oncoming train. A man, who was driving his car, knew of the usual presence of the watchman. As he approached the crossing, he received no warning. Driving onto the track, the man's car was struck and crushed by the train. The man died instantly. A few minutes after the accident, a police officer arrived at the crossing and walked into the kiosk. As he entered, the defendant then awoke. The police officer asked him, "What happened here?" The defendant made incriminating statements. The defendant is subsequently charged with involuntary manslaughter. His motion to prevent the introduction of his incriminating statements into evidence will most likely be denied, because the exchange took place in a non-custodial setting and the question was investigatory in nature..
A plaintiff was driving her car when she stopped at a red light at an intersection. A defendant, who was behind her, did not see the red light and failed to stop. He crashed into the rear of the woman's car and pushed her onto the curb and into a tree. When the plaintiff got out of her car, she felt fine physically, but was emotionally upset when she saw that the hood and trunk of her car were severely damaged. The next day she received an estimate from the mechanic for $1,950 to repair her car. She consulted an attorney the following afternoon and, that evening, suddenly developed shooting back pains. The plaintiff filed a lawsuit against the defendant based on a theory of negligence. One day prior to trial, two years after the accident, the plaintiff went to take a photograph of the accident scene. At trial, the photograph is admissible, if the photograph correctly and accurately portrayed the accident scene..
A defendant decided to rob a bar because he knew that the bar was now utilizing a new security system that was faulty and that nighttime was the best time to break in. Late one night, the defendant broke into the bar and proceeded to load large kegs of beer onto his truck. As he was leaving, the defendant inadvertently threw his cigarette butt into a trash can behind the bar. Soon afterward, the trash ignited into a small fire. Although the defendant had time to douse the fire without any danger to himself, he did not do so. Instead, he climbed into the truck and drove away. Although the fire spread beyond the trashcan, the fire department responded quickly and was able to put it out. The floor behind the bar was charred. The statutes for both burglary and arson in this jurisdiction include residential and business structures. The defendant should be convicted of which of the following crimes? Arson, burglary, and larceny..
At a defendant's trial for the murder of his former employer, the prosecutor offers into evidence a note that was found during a lawful search of the defendant's apartment. The note states: "The demon compels me to kill my former employer. I thirst for his bloody spirit. " At trial, the defendant's former girlfriend is called by the prosecution to testify that the handwriting was, in fact, the defendant's. The defendant's attorney objects. The trial judge should overrule the objection on the grounds that the former girlfriend qualifies as an authenticating witness..
The defendant and her co-felon decided to rob a bank. They agreed to use unloaded guns in the robbery. As planned, the co-felon entered the bank while the defendant stationed herself outside as a lookout. The co-felon approached the bank teller, pointed her unloaded gun at him, and demanded themoney. While the teller was handing the money to the co-felon, the defendant got scared and fled. The teller, who had a weak heart started to feel faint. He handed over the money to the co-felon, and then clutched his chest and died. The co-felon was found not guilty by a jury in her trial, which preceded the defendant's trial. The defendant is subsequently prosecuted for conspiracy and acquitted. Her acquittal most likely resulted because the co-felon was acquitted..
A plantiff sued a defendant for injuries suffered m a fall on the sidewalk of the defendant's home. The plaintiff's complaint alleged that the walk was covered by a thick sheet of ice, which had been negligently left there for several days by the defendant. In his answer, the defendant set forth that the ice formed overnight and that the plaintiff fell before the defendant had a chance to remove it. During the trial, a physician, whose office was next door to the defendant's home, testified that he saw the plaintiff fall and that the ice, which had been there for several days was at least two inches thick. On cross-examination, counsel for the defendant asked the physician the following question: "During your treatment of the plaintiff on the day in question, is it not true that he told you his fall resulted from a loss of equilibrium after he suffered from dizziness?"Upon objection by the plaintiff's attorney, the physician's testimony will be ruled admissible, because it is reasonably pertinent to diagnosis or treatment..
A victim was killed by a gunshot in the presence of three men. The fatal wound was inflicted by a single shot, and there was no suggestion of a conspiracy among those present. One of the three men was charged with the killing. The prosecution called one of the other men as its first witness. His testimony, if true, established that the defendant fired the shot that killed the victim. The defendant's attorney then called the man's longtime neighbor to impeach him. Which of the following offers of evidence is most likely to be admitted for the impeachment of the man? Testimony that the witness is not, in the neighbor's opinion, worthy of belief..
A defendant was charged with killing a victim during a barroom fight. The defendant claimed that he acted in self-defense when he was attacked by the victim. At trial, the defendant called a witness who testified that he witnessed the altercation and that the victim was the aggressor. The witness further testified that he has known the defendant for 10 years and that the defendant is a peaceable man who was acting reasonably in self-defense. The prosecution then offered the testimony of the victim's brother-in-law, who proposed to testify that the victim was a peaceable and law-abiding person. Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the brother-in-law's proposed testimony is admissible, for the purpose of repudiating the defendant's claim of self-defense..
At a defendant's trial for burglary, the defendant has called a witness who has testified without objection that the defendant said shortly after his arrest, "They've got the wrong person for this, because I have an alibi." The prosecutor seeks to cross- examine the witness about why she did not mention that statement when the police asked her whether the defendant had said anything to her about having an alibi. Is the prosecutor's proposed cross-examination proper? Yes, as impeachment for prior inconsistency..
A defendant was walking through a park when he decided to rob someone. He hid behind a tree, lying in wait for a victim to approach. Shortly thereafter, a girl was strolling in the park when the defendant suddenly jumped from his hiding place and accosted her. Although the defendant intended only to rob his victim, he punched her in the mouth and she fell to the ground. The defendant then grabbed her purse and fled. Unknown to the defendant, the girl suffered a fractured skull when her head struck the pavement. She subsequently died from her head injuries. Which of the following is the most serious crime for which the defendant can be found guilty? Felony murder..
A defendant was prosecuted for assault and battery after he admitted striking the victim with a pool cue during a barroom argument. The defendant claimed that he acted in self-defense after he was attacked by the victim, who was drunk and belligerent. At trial, the defendant called a witness who testified that the victim was the aggressor in the altercation. On cross-examination of the witness, the prosecuting attorney asked the witness the following question:"Isn't it true that when you filed your federal income tax return last year, you failed to report the interest income from your savings accounts?" The prosecuting attorney was informed of this fact by the witness's accountant. Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the prosecutor's question is within the court's discretion to allow, because filing a false income tax return is an act that bears on the witness's truthfulness..
While riding her bicycle along the street, a woman was struck by a vehicle that she didn't see. Subsequently, the woman sued the driver of the vehicle to recover damages for her injuries. At trial, the woman calls a police officer to testify that a few minutes after the accident, a driver stopped him and said, "Hey, officer, I just saw an accident involving a red truck that hit this girl who was riding a bicycle. The truck left the scene of the accident and I followed it to a warehouse. " The police officer then testified that he immediately drove to the warehouse and saw the defendant sitting in a red truck that was parked in the lot. The driver is available to testify at trial. Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the police officer's testimony regarding the driver's statement should be inadmissible as hearsay not within any recognized exception..
The defendant has been charged with murder in the killing of his wife. The defense attorney is preparing a defense to show facts sufficient to support a verdict of voluntary manslaughter. Counsel has to prove all of the necessary elements during trial in order to support a voluntary manslaughter charge to the jury. Which of the following would not be proper proof to establish a voluntary manslaughter charge to the jury? The defendant acted several days after the provoking events..
A defendant who is an accountant has been charged with fraud for allegedly helping a client file false income tax returns by shifting substantial medical expenses from one year to another. The defendant has pleaded not guilty, claiming that he made an honest mistake as to the date the expenses were paid. At trial, the prosecutor offers evidence of the defendant's involvement in an earlier scheme to help a different client falsify tax returns in the same way. Is the evidence of the defendant's involvement in the earlier scheme admissible? Yes, to show absence of mistake..
A defendant was playing cards with a group of friends at their weekly poker game. Earlier in the evening, one of the players handed the defendant a gun and told him it was unloaded. As a joke, the defendant pointed the gun at one of his friends and pulled the trigger. Unknown to the defendant, the gun was loaded and it discharged. The bullet grazed the friend's shoulder, slightly wounding him. The defendant was charged with assault with intent to kill. In this jurisdiction, battery is a lesser included offense of assault. At trial, the defendant requested that the court instruct the jury that if his mistake was honest, whether reasonable or unreasonable, it would be a valid defense to assault and the lesser included offense of battery. Conversely, the prosecution wanted the court to instruct the jury that in order for the defendant's mistake to be a valid defense for either crime, it must be reasonable. Regarding the jury instructions, which of the following statements is most accurate? The defendant is correct with respect to assault, and the prosecution is correct with respect to battery..
A defendant is on trial for possession of heroin. During the prosecution's case-in-chief, a police officer testifies that he watched another officer seize a bag of white powder from the defendant and seal it in an envelope, which both officers initialed and dated and then placed in the police property room. The prosecutor then calls a chemist to testify that she obtained, intact from the property room, the dated, sealed envelope with the initials of both police officers, whose handwriting she recognized police officers, whose handwriting she recognized from previous experience, and that testing disclosed that the powder therein was heroin. The defendant argues that the prosecutor has not sufficiently authenticated the powder tested by the chemist as the powder that was seized from the defendant. Is the chemist's testimony admissible? Yes, because the powder is sufficiently identified as having come from the defendant..
A witness lived next door to a victim. Late one night, the witness overheard the victim scream, "The defendant, please don't do it!" The next day the victim was found dead in her bedroom. The defendant was arrested and charged with murdering the victim. At trial, the witness proposes to testify to the victim's statement. Upon objection by defendant's counsel, the court should rule the witness's testimony regarding the victim's statement admissible as a dying declaration if the judge, by preponderance of the evidence, determines that the victim believed that her death was imminent..
A defendant, an indigent, was arrested and charged with attempted murder. The defendant, who had a history of psychiatric problems, had been diagnosed as being paranoid schizophrenic. The defendant was represented by a court-appointed attorney. In trying to prepare for trial, the attorney met with the defendant on numerous occasions. The attorney, however, found it difficult to communicate with the defendant, who, due to his paranoia, distrusted the attorney and believed he was working with the prosecution to convict him. The defendant was subsequently convicted. After the defendant was sentenced, the attorney filed an appeal seeking to overturn the conviction and have a new trial ordered. The appeal, in part, challenged the constitutionality of a state statute that placed the burden of proof on the defendant by requiring him to prove mental incompetency by clear and convincing evidence. In addition, the appeal claimed that the attorney was unable to provide adequate representation because there was a failure of communication between the defendant and his attorney. The appeal will most likely be granted, because the prosecution has the burden to prove the defendant's competency by a preponderance of evidence..
A criminal defendant went to trial and was convicted. After exhausting his appeals, he filed for post-conviction relief, alleging that he had been deprived of his Sixth Amendment right to the effective assistance of counsel. He established that his counsel had not advised him of the benefits of plea bargaining, and had withheld several offers for guilty pleas from the government. The offers expired for lack of a response. The sentence he received was at least seven to eight years more than if he had entered a guilty plea. Will the court likely decide that the defendant was denied the effective assistance of counsel? Yes, because plea bargaining is a critical stage of a criminal case and an attorney who ignores that process is constitutionally ineffective..
A defendant worked as a patent attorney in a law firm. Late one evening, she left the office and walked outside to her car. While in the parking lot, she noticed a gold watch lying on the ground. When the defendant picked it up, she immediately identified the watch as belonging to one of the other lawyers in her law firm. She took it home with her, intending to return it the next day. The following morning, however, the defendant decided to keep the watch, and did so. The defendant has committed neither larceny nor embezzlement..
A defendant is on trial for attempting to cash a forged check at a bank. A teller at the bank is called to testify. The teller testified that she was on duty when the defendant came to her station and handed her a check drawn on the account of another customer. She recognized the forgery because she knew the other customer's signature since he was one of her regulars. The teller further testified that after becoming suspicious, she placed the check down on the counter and turned to talk to her supervisor. As she did so, the defendant picked up the check and left the bank before she could say anything. The check that the defendant presented at the bank was not recovered by law enforcement authorities and was not offered as evidence. The teller's testimony regarding the forged signature on the check is admissible, because the witness was familiar with the alleged victim's handwriting..
A plaintiff sued a defendant for leg injuries stemming from a collision between their cars at an intersection. Each party was driving his own car, and the plaintiff alleged that the defendant had sped through a red light and collided with the plaintiff's car. The defendant denied this allegation. During the trial, the plaintiff testified that he and the defendant had conferred after the accident and that the defendant had said, "Don't worry about anything; I'll see to it that your doctor's bills are paid. " The defendant's attorney immediately objected. The trial judge should rule this testimony inadmissible, because an offer to pay medical bills is not admissible to prove negligence..
In a suit between a plaintiff and a defendant arising out of an automobile accident, a bystander wascalled to the stand to testify that the defendant had driven through a red traffic light immediately before the collision. On cross-examination by the defense, the bystander admitted to having made a prior statement to a friend that he was not sure if the traffic signal was yellow or red when the defendant drove through the intersection. The trial judge should on request by the plaintiff, instruct the jury that the prior statement may be used only toimpeach the bystander's credibility, and not as substantive evidence..
A defendant was arrested and charged with burglarizing a home. At trial, the main issue of contention centered on the identity of the burglar. The state called the homeowner to testify, but his identification testimony was inconclusive. The homeowner testified that he was asleep during the burglary and awoke as the burglar was fleeing the premises. The homeowner admitted that he didn't see the face of the burglar and couldn't even tell whether the person was male or female. Thereafter, the prosecution offers evidence that at the time of the burglary, the defendant needed money to defend himself against other burglary charges. This proffered evidence should be excluded as substantially more unfairly prejudicial than probative..
A defendant is on trial for attempted murder. The alleged victim is called by the prosecution to testify. During her testimony, the victim recounted the incident and described how the defendant savagely beat her with a baseball bat. She was not asked by the prosecution whether she made any statements during the attack. After the victim was excused and left the witness stand, the prosecution called another witness to testify. The witness proposes to testify that when the beating stopped, the victim screamed, "I'm dying. Don't let the defendant get away with this. "Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the witness's proffered testimony is admissible as an excited utterance..
A state has a statute prohibiting the sale of guns and ammunition to any person under the age of 17. Violation of the statute is a felony punishable by a fine of $5,000 and imprisonment for up to two years. The state courts have interpreted this statute as a public welfare offense requiring no particular mental state for its violation. As such, this is a strict liability crime whereby culpability is imposed on a defendant for doing the proscribed act. A defendant, a 15-year-old, entered the store to purchase a shotgun as a present for her father. She took a shotgun off the shelf and went to the cashier's counter to pay for it. Not seeing the cashier anywhere, the defendant left the exact price for the shotgun on the countertop and left the store. If the defendant is prosecuted for violating the state statute, she should be found not guilty, provided that the legislative intent was not to make the purchase of shotguns a criminal offense..
A defendant, a 14-year-old male, was tried as an adult for an armed robbery and was convicted. No one had been physically harmed during the robbery. In light of the defendant's lengthy juvenile criminal history, which included violent offenses, and the fact that armed robbery is a crime of violence, he was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Did the life-without-parole sentence violate the Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual punishment? Yes, because a life-without-parole sentence is not permissible for a juvenile defendant convicted of a nonhomicide offense..
A defendant charged with first-degree murder shall be furnished with a list containing names and addresses of all prospective jurors upon request..
Defendant was waiting in line for post-Thanksgiving day sales. The door opened at 6 a.m. and hundreds of people rushed the entrance for a chance at a hugely discounted holiday gift. When defendant saw that there was a signed copy of a book written by his mother's favorite author, he jumped towards it, only to be blocked by a little old lady with a baseball bat. She was using the bat as a blocking tool, but he was determined to get the book, so he deliberately stuck his leg out in front of her and tripped her. She fell hard and in the process ended up with a blood clot in her leg, which traveled to her heart over a period of weeks, and ultimately caused her death. What crime can the defendant likely be convicted of? Involuntary manslaughter.
A state statute provides that the crime of assault is generally punishable by a maximum of five years in prison. It further provides that the maximum punishment increases to 10 years in prison if the defendant possessed a deadly weapon during the assault. The statute designates the deadly weapon element as a sentencing factor. A defendant charged with assault has pleaded not guilty and has requested a jury trial. The prosecutor has announced that she will be seeking a 10- year sentence based on the defendant's alleged possession of a deadly weapon. What finding regarding the defendant's possession of a deadly weapon is necessary for the court to impose a 10-year sentence? A jury finding beyond a reasonable doubt..
Defendant was convicted of armed robbery. On appeal, Defendant moves for a new trial, claiming that his Sixth Amendment rights were violated because he received ineffective assistance of counsel at trial. Which of the following facts, if proven, would provide the best grounds to substantiate Defendant's ineffectiveness of counsel claim? The trial attorney failed to interview an alibi witness..
After waiting in line for two hours to gain entry into a popular nightclub, a man was denied admission because his attire failed to conform to the club's dress code. When he was refused admittance, the man angrily shouted to the club's doorman, "You'll be sorry for this. After I'm through, this club will be reduced to rubble. " Later that same evening, the man returned to the club with two explosives in his possession. He noticed the defendant leaving the club and followed him into a nearby parking lot. As the defendant was about to enter his car, the man grabbed him, pointed a gun and said, "Follow me, you punk, or I'll blow your brains out. " The man led the defendant to the rear of the club, handed him the explosives, and directed him to throw them through an open window of the club. In fear of his life, the defendant tossed the explosives into the club, causing an inferno that killed 25 people. In this jurisdiction, the applicable arson statute includes all buildings. If the defendant is charged with felony murder for the death of the people in the club, he will most likely be found not guilty, because duress is a defense to arson..
A defendant was charged with felony murder as a result of his setting fire to the victim's house. The victim was upstairs sleeping when the fire was set, and he died in his bedroom during the fire. If the defendant can prove the facts to support his defense, which of the following assertions would LEAST likely remove liability for felony murder? The defendant did not intend to kill the victim..
During a two-month span, there were 15 bank robberies in the city area. The robberies were carried out by a single individual who entered the banks wearing a ski mask and carrying a machine gun. The police received information from a reliable informant that the defendant was the person responsible for the robberies. Acting on this tip, the police secured a valid arrest warrant and went to the defendant's home to apprehend him. When the officers rang the doorbell, the defendant opened the door and was placed under arrest. The defendant, who was wearing only underwear, asked the officers if he could put on a shirt and pants. One of the police officers asked the defendant if anyone else was present in the house. The defendant indicated that he was alone. The officer then accompanied the defendant to his bedroom to change his clothes. When the defendant asked permission to enter the closet for his pants, the officer told him that he needed to inspect the closet first. While the officer was inside the closet, he saw a ski mask that he recognized as part of the apparel worn by the bank robber. The officer confiscated the ski mask and then allowed the defendant inside the closet to change his clothes. While the officer and the defendant were in the bedroom, the officer's partner decided to conduct a protective sweep of the other rooms of the dwelling to see if any accomplices were present. Upon entering a back storage room, the other officer saw a box containing a large amount of $100 bills. The officer confiscated the money, which was later determined to be part of the money stolen during one of the bank robberies. The defendant is subsequently prosecuted for bank robbery. The prosecution seeks to introduce the ski mask and the money found in his home into evidence. A motion by the defendant's attorney to exclude the items will be granted with respect to the money, but denied with respect to the ski mask..
One evening, a defendant set fire to a homeowner's occupied house. As a result of the blaze, the homeowner's daughter was killed. The defendant was charged with felony murder on the first count and arson on the second count of the two-count indictment. The jury found the defendant guilty on the first count, but returned a not guilty verdict on the second. The defendant's attorney's motion to set aside the guilty verdict on the felony murder charge will most likely be granted, because the verdicts are legally inconsistent and should lead to an acquittal of both charges..
A defendant and his college roommate went home together for the holiday vacation. The defendant was to go back to college by himself. The day that the defendant was to drive back to college, his roommate asked him if he would deliver a package to one of their classmates. The defendant agreed, and the roommate gave him a small package, which the defendant placed in his glove compartment. While driving back to school, the defendant was stopped for speeding. When the state trooper asked the defendant for his license and registration, he reached into the glove compartment. As he did, the package that his roommate had given him fell onto the floor. When it hit the floor, the box broke open and a plastic envelope containing a white substance slid out. Seeing that the substance appeared to be cocaine, the state trooper arrested the defendant for possession of illegal narcotics under a state statute making it a felony to willfully possess a controlled substance. The package did, in fact, contain cocaine. If the defendant is later brought to trial for this charge, his best defense is that the defendant didn't know what was in the package..
Knowing that a homeowner was away on vacation, two men decided to burglarize her home. Since they didn't have a car, the men asked the defendant to drive them to the home. The two men did not tell the defendant what they intended to do there. The defendant drove them to the house. While the defendant waited in the car, the two men entered the home by using a master key to unlock the front door. They then stole several items of expensive jewelry from the bedroom. Concealing the jewelry in their pockets, they left the house and got back into the defendant's car. Unaware of the theft, the defendant drove the two men back to their apartments. The next day, the two men pawned the jewelry for $5,000. Two weeks later, the two men gave the defendant $500 and told him for the first time about the burglary. The defendant kept the money and did not report the theft to the police. If the defendant is subsequently prosecuted, he should be found not guilty of either burglary or receiving stolen property..
A defendant was a senior pre-med student at a state university. Before a big football game with their arch rival, the defendant attended a pep rally at the university football field. During the pep rally, the students drank beer, sang songs, and gave members of the football team fervent cheers. After the rally ended, the defendant was walking toward his car when he felt the need to relieve himself. He then strutted across the street to a municipal park and urinated against a tree. In this jurisdiction, urinating in public is a misdemeanor. Unknown to the defendant, a parking enforcement officer who was ticketing cars in the area witnessed the incident and wrote down the license number of the defendant's vehicle as he drove off. She immediately gave the information to the police who did a check and learned the defendant's identity and home address. Within an hour, the police went to the defendant's house and forcibly entered the dwelling without a search warrant. While searching his home, they found the defendant studying in an upstairs bedroom. After giving him his Miranda warnings, the defendant confessed to the crime. The defendant was thereafter prosecuted for the misdemeanor of urinating in public. If the defendant moves to suppress evidence of the statement that he made to the police when he was apprehended, the motion should be sustained, because the defendant's statement was the product of a warrantless entry of his home..
In which of the following situations will the defendant's defense of necessity most likely exculpate him of criminal liability? A defendant, who was intoxicated, was driving his car home along a heavily traveled highway. In his inebriated condition, the defendant was swerving his vehicle across the highway. Suddenly, a school bus loaded with children made a wrong turn and headed directly into the path of the defendant's auto. In order to avoid crashing head-on with the school bus, the defendant turned his vehicle onto the sidewalk and struck a victim, a paraplegic, who was confined to a wheelchair. The defendant's auto crushed the victim to death..
At a defendantÕs trial for extortion, the prosecutor called a witness expecting her to testify that she had heard the defendant threaten a man with physical harm unless the man made payoffs to the defendant. The witness denied ever having heard the defendant make such threats, even though she had testified to that effect before the grand jury. The prosecutor now seeks to admit the witnessÕs grand jury testimony. How should the court rule with regard to the grand jury testimony? Admit the testimony, both for impeachment and for substantive use, because the witness made the inconsistent statement under oath at a formal proceeding..
A town had been experiencing a rash of bank robberies. All the witnesses at each bank had described a man with a gun who said, "Get down on the floor and no one has to die today!" Following a series of leads, the detectives in the case finally made an arrest. At the police station, the suspect was placed in a lineup. One of the victims observed the lineup, and after each of the six participants stated, "Get down on the floor and no one has to die today," the victim identified the suspect as the perpetrator. The defendant's attorney subsequently moved to suppress the out-of-court identification, arguing that because the defendant was forced to speak, this violated his Fifth Amendment right to remain silent, which had been invoked previously by the defendant. The police requirement that the defendant state at the lineup, "Get down on the floor and no one has to die today" would not prohibit the defendant's lineup identification from being introduced at trial..
A defendant suspected her long-term boyfriend was cheating on her. On a hunch, she went to her boyfriend's apartment one afternoon and, using her key, she entered the apartment. Once inside, she found her boyfriend and his new girlfriend in bed together. In a rage, the defendant retrieved the gun from the nightstand and killed her boyfriend and his new girlfriend. After the shooting, the defendant left on a two-day trip to the mountains to get the week's events off her mind. She called her teenage neighbor to take care of her apartment while she was gone and to look after her 4-year-old daughter. That night, after the defendant left, the police came to the apartment. They asked the neighbor if they could search the apartment, and the neighbor gave them permission. The police found in the defendant's bedroom the gun used to kill her boyfriend. At a motion to suppress the gun prior to trial, which of the following facts would the defendant's attorney be LEAST likely to attempt to prove? The defendant gave her neighbor the keys to her apartment..
One night, a defendant entered a liquor store, pointed a gun at the cashier, and demanded the money from the register. The cashier was nervous and moving slowly, and when she accidentally spilled all of the money out of the bag and onto the floor, the defendant shot her and left. The bullet lodged close to the cashier's spine, paralyzing her. The defendant was subsequently prosecuted and convicted of robbery and assault with a deadly weapon. Two months later, the cashier decided she wanted an operation to remove the bullet. The doctors warned the cashier that the procedure was very risky and could result in her death. The cashier decided to go ahead with the surgery and, unfortunately, died as a result. If the defendant is now prosecuted for felony murder, he should be found guilty, because he was the cause of the cashier's death..
A defendant was at a bar when she saw her exboyfriend who had recently dumped her. The defendant walked away and spotted a good friend of hers. She approached her friend and told him she would give him $50 to beat up her ex-boyfriend. The friend agreed but said he would wait until the ex-boyfriend left the bar. While the defendant was eavesdropping on her ex-boyfriend in the hopes he would say something nice about her, she overheard him having a conversation on his cellphone. During the course of that conversation, the defendant realized that her ex-boyfriend was now a federal agent. Afraid she might be prosecuted for a federal offense, the defendant told her friend not to bother with the planned attack. If the defendant is subsequently charged with the statutory offense of conspiring to commit an assault on a federal officer, the defendant will probably be convicted, because her knowledge that her exboyfriend was a federal agent is not a material element of the crime..
This jurisdiction has the following criminal statute in effect:"A person is not responsible for criminal conduct if at the time of such conduct, as a result of mental disease or defect, he lacks substantial capacity to appreciate the wrongfulness of his conduct, or to conform his conduct to the requirements of law. "One afternoon, a defendant was babysitting his five-year-old nephew. As they were playing catch outside, the defendant threw the ball over his nephew's head, and it rolled into the street. Instinctively, the nephew ran after the ball but tripped over the gutter and fell in the street. When he tripped, the nephew severely sprained his ankle and couldn't stand up. Moments later, a large garbage truck was backing up and ran over the nephew, killing him. Although the defendant saw his nephew's predicament, he made no effort to rescue him. Subsequently, the defendant was charged with involuntary manslaughter. At trial, the defendant testified that he was so shocked when he saw his nephew fall near the garbage truck that he froze and was unable to move until it was too late. Following the defendant's testimony, an expert witness testified for the defense that reactions of the sort described by the defendant are not unusual when a truly shocking event occurs. If the jury believes the testimony of the defendant and his expert witness, the defendant's best defense is which of the following? The defendant's failure to act was not voluntary..
Police received a tip from a reliable informant that a man was dealing cocaine from his home. Officers then submitted to a magistrate an affidavit setting forth circumstances showing probable cause for the issuance of a search warrant. The magistrate issued a search warrant for narcotics at the man's address. Police officers went to the man's home and rang the door bell. When no one answered, the police broke in and entered the dwelling. They searched the rooms on the first floor and found no incriminating evidence, then walked outside and noticed a separate entrance leading up to the second floor of the dwelling. They ascended the stairway and entered an upstairs bedroom. Inside the room the officers found a stash of cocaine lying on a dresser. As the officers were continuing their search of the bedroom, the defendant entered the room. The police asked the defendant if he was the man. The defendant identified himself and told the police that they were in his bedroom and he occupied the second floor of the dwelling. The defendant explained that the man resided on the first floor and his living quarters were separate from the defendant's. Nonetheless, the defendant was placed under arrest and charged with possession of cocaine. The defendant has filed a motion to exclude the cocaine from being admitted into evidence. The defendant's motion should be denied, because the police reasonably believed they were searching the man's residence when they entered the defendant's living quarters..
Under which one of the following situations would the defendant(s) most likely be found guilty of larceny? One afternoon, the defendant noticed the victim riding his racing bike in the park. The defendant, who always wanted to own a racing bike, saw his opportunity when the victim left his bike unattended to participate in a touch football game. The defendant jumped on the bike and quickly rode away. Later that evening, the defendant called the victim and demanded $200 for the return of the bike. The victim agreed to the defendant's demand. The following day, the victim paid the defendant the money, and the defendant, in turn, returned the bike..
A defendant was arrested and charged with possession of heroin. At the defendant's preliminary hearing, the prosecution presented evidence that the defendant was arrested while riding in a car. The heroin was found in a briefcase containing no identification, but several papers found inside contained references to the defendant. The defendant's attorney argued that the briefcase did not belong to the defendant, and the defendant had no idea how the heroin got inside the briefcase. The court ruled that there was insufficient probable cause to support a prosecution of the defendant on the heroin possession charge. The defendant was released from custody and charges were dropped. Several weeks later, a grand jury was convened to determine if the defendant should be re-indicted for heroin possession based on the same alleged incident reviewed at the preliminary hearing. The defendant was called to testif' as a witness at the grand jury hearing. He appeared and was sworn in as a witness. The defendant proceeded to challenge the proceeding on the basis that any grand jury indictment for heroin possession would constitute a violation of the double jeopardy clause. The defendant's double jeopardy challenge should be denied, because there is no basis for a double jeopardy challenge..
A passenger on a subway car placed her pocketbook on the seat next to her and began to zip up her jacket. Defendant was standing in front of the passenger and holding on to the hand rail. Seeing the pocketbook unattended, he suddenly grabbed it and tried to run away. As he did so, the passenger became very frightened and fell backward. She struck her head against the window and was knocked unconscious. In the commotion, Defendant dropped the pocketbook and hurriedly exited the subway car empty-handed. Defendant should be found guilty of larceny..
A victim and a defendant both worked as longshoremen at a shipyard. After the victim was shot to death, the defendant was tried for murder and acquitted. Following the acquittal, the victim's estate sued the defendant in a wrongful death action. During the civil trial, the victim's estate called a witness to testify. The witness, who worked with both men at the shipyard, testified that two weeks before the shooting, the victim came to work with a broken nose and said that the defendant had caused it. The attorney for the victim's estate then asked the witness the following question, "Was the defendant present during your conversation with the victim, and if so, did he say anything about the victim's broken nose?" The witness replied, "Yes, the defendant was present, and after the victim told me that the defendant broke his nose, the defendant said, And that's only the beginning. "Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the witness's testimony is admissible, because it reports the defendant's adoptive admission of the victim's assertion..
A defendant was going out to dinner, and she parked her car at a parking lot across the street from the restaurant. The parking attendant directed the defendant to leave her keys in the car, and he handed her a receipt as she left. Following dinner, the defendant went back to the parking lot and handed her receipt to the attendant who informed her that the parking charge would be $14. Visibly irate, she told the attendant that $14 was much too high for a two-hour parking fee. The parking attendant responded that unless she paid the $14, he could not return her car. She adamantly refused to pay the $14, and her friend, with whom she was having dinner, drove the defendant home in her car. Later that same night, the defendant decided to regain possession of her car with a spare set of keys. She returned to the lot and drove her car home. If the defendant is subsequently charged with larceny, she will most likely be found guilty, because she failed to pay the $14 before regaining possession of her car..
A defendant is on trial for bribing a government procurement officer by providing the officer with free vacation facilities. When the defendant was approached by an FBI investigator, the defendant stated that her invitation to the procurement officer to spend his vacation in the defendant's mountain cabin was a favor to a friend, unrelated to his government office. The defendant also said to the investigator that she would reveal some "hot" information on a large-scale fraud in exchange for the investigator's promise to "stop worrying about a little vacation." a little vacation." Is the investigator's testimony about the defendant's offer to give information admissible? Yes, as a statement of an opposing party..
A defendant incurred heavy gambling losses to a bookie. Short of cash, the defendant sought help from his uncle. When the uncle refused to lend his irresponsible nephew any money, the defendant decided to get even. One morning, as the housekeeper was preparing his uncle's breakfast, the defendant stealthily entered the kitchen and, unnoticed, dropped arsenic into the teapot from which his uncle was always served his tea. The defendant then hurriedly left the house and went to play golf. Shortly thereafter, the housekeeper served the uncle the poisoned tea, thus causing his unfortunate death. The defendant's culpability for his uncle's death would most probably be as a principal in the first degree..
A federal statute makes it a crime for anyone to "knowingly" use, transfer, acquire, alter, or possess food stamps in any manner not authorized by statute or federal regulations. A restaurant owner purchased food stamps from an undercover federal agent several times for a price below face value. At trial, the judge refused to charge the jury that this was a specific intent crime requiring proof that the defendant knew that he was acting illegally. The government urged that no mens rea, or "evil-meaning mind" had to be proved. The court simply told the jury that "knowingly" means that the Defendant realized what he was doing, and did not act through ignorance, mistake, or accident. The owner was convicted and appealed. What will the federal appellate court likely decide regarding the lower court's interpretation of the criminal intent required under the statute? Where all that is available regarding intent is the use of the word "knowingly", the prosecution must at least prove that the defendant knew his conduct to be unauthorized by statute or regulations..
A defendant was indicted and arrested for bank robbery. The defendant had an initial appearance before a magistrate judge in which he was notified of the charges and told that counsel would be appointed for him the next day. The police then required the defendant to participate with other prisoners in a lineup in which each person had to wear a white T-shirt and say, "Put your hands in the air." At the lineup, witnesses to the bank robbery identified the defendant as the bank robber. The next day, the defendant was arraigned on the charges. The defendant argues that his Sixth Amendment right to counsel was violated when he was denied counsel at two critical stages of the proceeding: his initial appearance in court before the magistrate initial appearance in court before the magistrate judge and the lineup identification. Was the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to counsel violated? Yes, based only on the denial of counsel at the lineup..
A defendant worked as a short-order cook at a restaurant. After work, the defendant went out drinking with one of the other cooks, and they were commiserating about their lack of money. They decided that the only way out of their rut was to rob a local bank. They then agreed to carry out a bank heist on the following Friday. In accordance with their plan, the cook on Monday purchased two ski masks to be used in the robbery. On Wednesday, after learning that the cook had bought the masks, the defendant got cold feet and told the cook he was renouncing his involvement in the robbery scheme. On Friday, the cook carried out the robbery without the defendant's participation. This jurisdiction requires an overt act for the crime of conspiracy. Is the defendant guilty of conspiracy? Yes, because the purchase of the ski masks was a sufficient overt act in the furtherance of the crime..
A brother and his sister, who was 15 years old, had just left a movie theater late one evening and were walking toward a dimly lit parking lot to get to their car. As they reached the car, a defendant, who was visibly intoxicated, emerged from behind a trash can and approached them. The defendant knocked the brother to the ground and hit him over the head with a trash can, causing the brother to lose consciousness. The defendant then forced the sister into the car and raped her. The defendant is charged with assault with intent to commit rape, based on his attack on the brother. The defendant's best defense would be which of the following statements? The defendant did not intend to rape the sister..
The defendant was caught in a thunderstorm while walking down the street. As the defendant was about to open an umbrella that she was carrying, a stranger to the defendant came up to her, snatched the umbrella out of the defendant's hand, and said, "You thief! That's my umbrella. " Enraged by being accosted in such a manner, the defendant grabbed for the umbrella with one hand and pushed the stranger with the other. The stranger hung on to the umbrella but fell over backward onto the sidewalk, which was wet and slippery. When the defendant saw the stranger hit the ground, she calmed down, decided the umbrella was not worth all the commotion, and walked off. As it turned out, the umbrella did in fact belong to the stranger, and the defendant had picked it up by mistake when she was left a restaurant earlier that day. A few moments later, the stranger got up in a daze and stepped into the gutter, where he was struck by a car that was passing another car on the right, in violation of a state law. The stranger died in the hospital two hours later. Which of the following is the most serious crime for which the defendant could be found guilty? Battery..
A man was charged with first-degree murder. Two lawyers were appointed to represent him because the prosecution planned to seek the death penalty. On the first day of trial, the air-conditioning malfunctioned in the courtroom, so the judge directed that the selection of the jurors take place in his chambers. Because of the large number of potential jurors, the judge directed that only one lawyer for the prosecution and one for the defense participate in the jury selection process. The defendant remained in the courtroom during the questioning of the jurors. Once the jury was selected, the trial was postponed until the next day, when the air-conditioning was again working. Did the court's jury selection process violate the defendant's federal constitutional rights? Yes, because jury selection is a critical stage at which a defendant is entitled to be present..
A man was prosecuted for the alleged murder of his estranged wife. At trial, the government was allowed to present the testimony of several women who testified to having flirtatious or sexual encounters with the defendant over the past 20 years prior to the homicide. None of the testimony showed any such activity within three years of the murder date, and none of it showed any violent tendencies of the defendant or intentions expressed that he wanted to kill his wife. The defendant had an alibi for the time of the crime and presented many alibi witnesses. The government claimed that it was showing motive by proving the defendant's proclivity for extra-marital affairs over the years and therefore his bad relationship with his wife. The jury convicted him after hearing the testimony of 10 women regarding defendant's various sexual contacts with them over prior years. The defendant appealed the murder conviction, claiming that the women's testimony was prejudicial and inflammatory and showed only bad character, which is not admissible under evidentiary rules. Will the appeals court likely reverse the conviction and order a new trial? Yes, the defendant did not receive a fair trial; the testimony of the women only showed his bad character but because they were old incidents and not continuing, they did not allow a permissible inference that these affairs gave him a motive to kill his spouse..
A defendant was on the first day of her new secretarial job when her boss called her into his office. The boss directly suggested that if the defendant did not go out on a date with him, she would be fired in one week. Every day during the remainder of the week, the boss approached the defendant with his demand, and the defendant refused to cooperate. At the end of the week, when the boss called the defendant into his office and again tried to pressure her to go out on a date with him, the defendant knocked him unconscious with a giant stapler and choked him to death. The defendant is tried for murder. In accordance with the following statute, the state relies at trial on the presumption of malice:"When the act of killing another is proved, malice aforethought shall be presumed, and the burden shall rest upon the party who committed the killing to show that malice did not exist. "If the defendant is convicted of first-degree murder and challenges her conviction on the grounds of the above statute, on appeal she will win, because the statute violates due process..
A large man with red hair robbed a liquor store. Thereafter, a defendant was arrested and charged with the armed robbery. At the defendant's trial, several eyewitnesses testified that they had seen a large redheaded man pull out a gun and rob the owner of the liquor store. The defendant appeared at trial with a shaven head. The prosecution calls a corrections officer to testify that the defendant had red hair when he was first brought to jail. The defendant's counsel objects. The trial judge should rule the correction officer's testimony admissible, for the limited purpose of clarifying the discrepancy in the witnesses' testimony..
A defendant was prosecuted for mail fraud. At trial, the defendant moved to have all witnesses excluded from the courtroom, and the court granted the motion. The government named the investigating FBI agent as its designated representative. Upon learning that the agent would be giving testimony during the trial, the defendant moved that the agent also be excluded from the courtroom. Should the defendantÕs motion be granted? No, because the government has a right to have its designated representative remain in the courtroom through-out the trial..
A state has a hit-and-run statute in effect that makes it a crime to leave the scene of an accident. One afternoon, a 9-year-old victim was riding her bicycle along the street. As the victim swerved into the southbound lane, her bicycle was struck by a car driven by the defendant. The victim was knocked off her bike and thrown onto the sidewalk adjacent to the street. Although the victim received some minor scrapes and bruises, she was not seriously injured. Following the accident, the car driven by the defendant sped away. Moments later, however, a tractor-trailer crashed into the rear of a car about 30 feet from where the victim was lying. The car almost instantly caught fire as its gas tank exploded. The victim, who was engulfed in the flaming wreckage, was killed. If the defendant is charged with involuntary manslaughter for the death of the victim, the defendant should be found not guilty, because there was not a sufficient causal connection between her actions and the victim's death to impose criminal responsibility..
A defendant went to a party at his friend's house. While he was there, the defendant drank a lot of beers and countless shots. The defendant eventually stumbled into the bathroom where he spotted a purse lying on the floor under the sink. Wondering vaguely if it might contain more beer, he opened it up and found his friend's wallet. He grabbed some money from the wallet and left the bathroom. As he was descending the stairs with the money in his hand, his friend spotted him. She was initially concerned he might tumble down the stairs but upon seeing the money in his hand, she asked him where he got it. The defendant responded, "Ha! Your money or your life!" Not taking him seriously, the friend let him pass by. It wasn't until later that she realized that the defendant had taken the money from her wallet. The defendant should be charged with which of the following crimes? Larceny..
A plaintiff filed a civil action asking for damages resulting from a tortious assault that the defendant inflicted on him. During trial, plaintiff's counsel asked an opposing witness on cross examination: "At any time during the assault did anyone attempt to leave?" Defense counsel objected to the question. How will the court rule on the objection? The objection will be sustained because the question is misleading..
In which of the following situations is the defendant most likely guilty of manslaughter? A defendant was a guide on a nature walk in a national park. The group was traversing a mountainous path when a mountain lion suddenly appeared. The defendant, who was carrying a loaded gun, knew that mountain lions and coyotes were in the area. The defendant saw that the mountain lion was about to attack one of the hikers. Although the defendant could have easily shot and killed it, he did nothing. The wild animal pounced on the hiker. As she was being savaged, the defendant and the other members of the group ran to safety..
The defendant was an off-duty police officer who frequently worked security at concerts on his free time. One night, he was working backstage security for one of his favorite bands when he noticed a groupie sneak in the back door, pick up a guitar, and begin to walk out with it. He drew his service revolver and exclaimed, "Stop or I'll shoot!" The groupie looked at him and then fled. The defendant fired at the fleeing groupie, fatally wounding her. Use of force was not authorized by the concert promotion company that employed him. On these facts, if the defendant is charged with murder, he should be found guilty..
A defendant entered a bar and ordered a beer. The bartender politely told the defendant he would have to wait until two other patrons were served. The defendant became irate and pulled out a small penknife. Although the defendant intended only to frighten the bartender, he accidentally nicked the bartender's arm with the penknife. The bartender's arm became infected, and he died from gangrene two months later. The most serious crime that the defendant can be convicted of is involuntary manslaughter..
A defendant was arrested one morning by a police officer for the attempted murder of the victim. The defendant had allegedly fired three shots at the victim, a physical education teacher, in the schoolyard of an elementary school. Immediately after the arrest, the arresting officer advised the defendant of his Miranda rights. The defendant responded that he would not make any statement until he consulted his attorney. Within minutes, a patrol car arrived and the defendant was taken into the car to be transported to the police station. The arresting officer sat in the front, next to the driver, and the defendant sat alone in the back seat, with his hands cuffed. On the way to the station, the driver stated to the arresting officer, "I hope that the gun involved in this crime doesn't get into the hands of those small children, because one of them could be seriously injured, to say the least. " The defendant interrupted the officers and told them where to look in the schoolyard for the abandoned gun. As a result of this information, the police found the gun where the defendant said it was. What is the state's best rebuttal to the defendant's argument that the gun was illegally seized? The defendant was not interrogated in the patrol car..
A man was at a pub drinking beer and playing darts with a group of friends. Quite intoxicated, the man left the bar around midnight. He was staggering down the street when the defendant approached him from behind. The defendant took out a stick, stuck it against the man's back and told the man to give him his wallet or he was going to shoot him. Frightened, the man fainted and fell to the pavement. The defendant reached into the man's pants pocket and stole his wallet. The defendant is guilty of robbery..
A defendant and a classmate were students at a state college. They were spending a leisurely afternoon listening to music in the defendant's dorm room. They had just consumed a six-pack of beer when the classmate asked the defendant if there was anything else to drink. The defendant indicated there wasn't and suggested that his classmate drive to the store and buy another six-pack. The classmate told the defendant that his car wasn't working and asked the defendant if he could borrow his. The defendant assented and gave his classmate the keys to his car. The defendant knew that the classmate was drunk when he lent him his car. The classmate was driving to the store at an excessive rate of speed. As he approached an intersection, he was traveling at 70 M. PJ-I. When he came to the intersection, the light turned red. The classmate, who made no effort to stop in time, drove through the red light and collided with another car. The driver of the other car, who had entered the intersection with a green light, was killed in the accident. In the event that the defendant can be convicted of manslaughter, it will most likely be upon the basis of recklessness in lending his car to his classmate..
The defendant was walking down the street when he saw a woman struggling with a man over a briefcase. Unbeknownst to the defendant, the woman had just stolen the briefcase from the man on the street. Believing the woman to be the victim of an attack, the defendant intervened and punched the man until the woman was able to get away with the briefcase. Confused as to why he wasn't being hailed as a hero by the woman, the defendant eventually realized that he had been an unwitting accomplice to the woman's theft. The defendant apologized profusely to the man and went home. According to the alter ego rule, which of the following statements is correct with respect to the amount of force that the defendant was entitled to use in the woman's defense? Not knowing the true facts, the defendant was not justified in using force to protect the woman because the man was privileged to recapture his briefcase..
A defendant hated a victim and decided to kill him. The defendant put a loaded gun in his coat pocket and went outside for a walk, not sure if and when he may see the victim. The defendant passed by a bar and decided to go inside for a drink. While in the bar, he drank several bottles of beer and became intoxicated. While walking home from the bar, the defendant bumped into the victim. As soon as the defendant recognized him, he pulled out his gun and shot and killed the victim. In this jurisdiction, first-degree murder is defined as a premeditated and deliberate killing. All other forms of murder are second-degree murder. The defendant is guilty of first-degree murder..
A defendant had an argument with his neighbor. As they were quarreling, the defendant pulled out his penknife intending only to frighten the neighbor. The defendant accidentally slightly nicked the neighbor's arm with the knife. Unknown to the defendant, his neighbor was a hemophiliac who then died from the cut. What is the most serious crime that the defendant can be convicted of? Involuntary manslaughter..
Two college students were members of the same fraternity. During a fraternity party, the defendant pulled out a gun, pointed it at the other student and said, "Beg for your life, sucker. " The student, who knew that the defendant had a reputation as a practical joker, said, "Get lost, you jerk. " The defendant then pulled the trigger and shot the student to death. A statute in this jurisdiction provides: "Any intentional and premeditated killing with malice aforethought is murder in the first degree. Murder in the second degree is any killing that occurs during the commission or attempted commission of a serious or inherently dangerous felony. Manslaughter includes all other types of unlawftil homicide and unjustifiable killings. "The defendant was subsequently prosecuted for killing the student. At trial, the defendant testified that a fellow fraternity member gave him the gun before the shooting and told him that it was unloaded. If the jury believes the defendant, it should find him guilty of manslaughter..
Defendant is on trial. Which of the following, if occurs, would NOT cause a due process violation in the trial? The defendant is compelled to stand trial in street clothing..
A plaintiff sued a defendant in federal court for injuries arising out of an accident involving the parties. The plaintiff alleged and presented evidence at trial demonstrating that her injuries had left her legs permanently paralyzed. The jury found in favor of the plaintiff and awarded her $5 million in damages. Two months after the court entered judgment, the defendant was given a videotape made that day showing the plaintiff jogging with her doctor. What is the best way for the defendant to seek relief from the judgment? Move for relief from the judgment on the ground that the plaintiff committed a fraud in obtaining damages for permanent injuries..
A defendant was arrested and charged with burglarizing a pharmacy. The break-in allegedly occurred late one evening after the store had closed for business. The defendant was identified as the perpetrator of the crime by a film that was recorded during the burglary from a hidden camera. When the defendant was apprehended, he denied involvement in the crime and told the arresting officers that he had been out of town when the burglary occurred. Prior to trial, the defendant's court appointed attorney filed a motion requesting discovery of the videotape film that was recorded during the perpetration of the crime. The trial judge granted the request and ordered the prosecution to send a duplicate copy of the videotape to the defendant's attorney. Following the judge's ruling, the prosecuting attorney, pursuant to state law, then filed a discovery motion specifically asking the defendant whether he planned to raise an alibi defense. The prosecuting attorney also sought discovery of the identity of such an alibi witness. Assume that the judge requires the defendant to respond as to whether the defendant intends to raise an alibi defense. May the judge also require the defendant to disclose the identity of the alibi witness? Yes, because the prosecution should have an opportunity to investigate the merits of the alibi..
At a defendant's trial for drug dealing, a prosecution witness testified that he had heard the defendant telling a group of people to come to the defendant's house because he had "a great crop of apples for sale." The prosecutor then called and qualified a drug enforcement agent as an expert in how drug dealing is conducted. The prosecutor now seeks to have the expert testify that in her opinion, based on years of experience with drug dealers, the defendant's statement about the apples was code for his having drugs for sale. Should the expert's opinion be admitted? Yes, because the opinion is based on her specialized knowledge, and it will assist the trier of fact in understanding the evidence and determining facts in issue in the case..
Before the close of evidence in a federal negligence trial, the defendant submitted a proposed jury instruction on contributory negligence. Before instructing the jury, the judge informed the parties of the instructions she would give, which did not include the defendant's contributory negligence instruction or any instruction on contributory negligence. Neither party objected, either then or after the judge had given the instructions. The jury after the judge had given the instructions. The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff, and the judge entered judgment on the verdict. The defendant would like to appeal the verdict on the ground that the judge should have instructed the jury on contributory negligence. Has the defendant preserved the issue for appeal? No, because the defendant failed to object after the judge informed the parties of the instructions she would give..
In a false imprisonment action by a plaintiff against a defendant, the plaintiff calls a witness to testify that the incident occurred on particular date. The witness was not questioned about an affidavit he made for trial in which he stated that the incident occurred on a different date. After the witness left the stand, but before he was excused, the defendant's attorney offers into evidence the affidavit. Assuming that the affidavit is properly authenticated, the trial judge should rule it admissible for impeachment purposes only..
A defendant is on trial for theft of a used car that he took for a test drive and did not return. He was arrested in the car two days later. In his defense, the defendant has testified that he had no intention of keeping the car but got caught up in marital problems and simply delayed returning it. The defendant calls a witness to testify that the defendant told him, during the two days, "I'm going to return this car as soon as I work things out with my wife." Is the witness's testimony admissible? Yes, as a statement by the defendant of his then-existing state of mind..
Defendant was seen leaving Neighbor's yard with Neighbor's new $10 garden hose. Neighbor called the police, who charged Defendant with the second-degree misdemeanor of petit theft by issuing him a notice to appear in the county courthouse one week later. Defendant appeared at the scheduled place and time and asked the judge to appoint a lawyer to represent him. The judge found Defendant to be indigent. The judge need not appoint Defendant a lawyer if the judge states in writing that Defendant will not go to jail at all if convicted..
The attorney for a plaintiff in an action filed in federal district court served the defendant with the summons, the complaint, and 25 interrogatories asking questions about the defendant's contentions in the case. The interrogatories stated that they were to be answered within 30 days after service. The defendant is likely to succeed in obtaining a protective order on which of the following grounds? Interrogatories may not be served until the parties have conferred to arrange for initial disclosures and prepare a discovery plan..
Defendant was on trial for robbery. Defendant's direct examination continued until late in the day when it finally concluded. At this time, the trial court judge adjourned the proceedings for the evening. The judge then instructed Defendant not to speak with anyone during the night and scheduled cross- examination to begin in the morning. The judge's instruction to Defendant was improper, because it violates the defendant's Sixth Amendment right to counsel..
Defendant was arrested on February 1 and released one month later on March 1 after being charged with a felony. On December 1 of the same year as his arrest, he filed a motion to discharge since no trial or other action had occurred to that point. The court held a hearing 3 days after the motion was filed. Defendant should be brought to trial within 10 days of the hearing on the motion to discharge..
A defendant, on trial for robbery, took the stand and testified in his own behalf. On cross-examination, the prosecuting attorney asked the defendant whether he had committed false pretenses by making long-distance telephone calls by the unauthorized use of a credit card number. The defendant replied, "That's a lie, I never did. " In rebuttal, the prosecuting attorney called the court officer to testif' that the defendant admitted committing false pretenses. The court officer further testified, however, that the defendant was granted immunity from prosecution in exchange for his testimony against others. The court officer's testimony is inadmissible, because the testimony is extrinsic evidence..
Having just stolen a car, a defendant was operating the car within the posted speed limit when the steering suddenly malfunctioned. The car swerved out of control, jumped the curb, and crashed into a home. The defendant was arrested and charged with the separate crimes of larceny and malicious destruction of property. During the trial the judge instructed the jury that the theft of the car was sufficient evidence to satisfS' the malice requirement for the malicious destruction of property charge. The defendant's attorney has filed a motion objecting to the judge's jury instruction. The judge's instruction was incorrect, because malice requires a showing of recklessness..
Two men held-up a liquor store in a city. During the robbery, one of the participants shot and killed the owner of the store. Over a year later, police detectives arrested a defendant after obtaining reliable information that the defendant was the robber who was responsible for killing the store's owner. Afterward, the defendant was taken to the station house where he was booked for the crime and then incarcerated. The next day, the prosecuting attorney made a decision to delay indictment until he could discover the identity of the defendant's accomplice. The defendant was then released from police custody. In this jurisdiction the statute of limitations for murder is five years. Five months later, the prosecuting attorney, after unsuccessfully attempting to secure information on the defendant's cohort, indicted the defendant, charging him with felony murder. Shortly before trial, the only eyewitness to the crime died. He would have testified that the defendant did not participate in the robbery. The defendant's motion to dismiss the indictment because of the delay between the date of the crime and the date of the indictment will most probably be denied, because the delay was not excessive and was for a permissible purpose..
A defendant parked his car illegally in a handicapped parking space while he went into a store to get a cup of coffee. The defendant was inside the store waiting for his coffee when a member of the city's parking enforcement department drove by the vehicle. Seeing that there was no handicapped sticker on the car, the parking official stopped and started ticketing the vehicle. When the defendant came outside, he got into an argument with the parking official. After the defendant became verbally abusive, the parking official told him to desist or he was going to impound the vehicle. After the defendant continued his badgering, the parking official told him that he was impounding the vehicle and called the station house for officer assistance. A few minutes later, a police officer arrived on the scene. He asked the defendant for identification and then proceeded to frisk him for weapons. The officer found a clear vial containing heroin in the defendant's back pocket. He then placed the defendant under arrest. Thereupon, the parking official went into the defendant's car and began an inventory search. In this jurisdiction, parking enforcement personnel have statutory authority to conduct inventory searches of impounded vehicles. The parking official did not find anything of interest. After the police officer placed the defendant in the patrol car, the officer asked the parking official if he could search the vehicle, to which the parking official responded yes. The officer looked under the floor mat and found a bag containing marijuana. The defendant was taken to the station house and charged with unlawful possession of heroin and marijuana. Prior to trial, the defense filed a motion to exclude the heroin and marijuana from being admitted into evidence. The motion will be granted with respect to both the heroin and the marijuana..
A defendant was prosecuted for aggravated assault after he stabbed a man in the chest during a dispute over a gambling debt. The defendant claimed he acted in self-defense after the man drew a knife on him and made menacing gestures with it. The defendant called a witness to the stand to testify that the defendant had a reputation in the community for being a peaceful person. On cross-examination of the witness, the prosecuting attorney asked the witness if he had heard that the defendant had often engaged in fights and brawls. Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the trial judge should rule the question proper, because it tends to show the witness's knowledge of the defendant's reputation..
The victim owned and operated a small convenience store that was situated on the first floor of the building in which the victim occupied a second-floor apartment. Late one evening, the defendant was walking past the convenience store when he decided to break into the store to steal beer and cigarettes. The defendant threw a brick through the window of the convenience store and quickly went inside. Awakened by the alarm, the victim went down the stairs and into the convenience store. Seeing the victim, the defendant turned and began to run. Seeing the defendant running away with a case of beer and a carton of cigarettes, the victim ran after the defendant but tripped and fell, breaking his neck, which resulted in his immediate death. If the defendant is subsequently charged with the victim's death, he will most likely be found guilty of felony murder..
A defendant is charged with murder and relies upon a claim of self-defense. At trial, the defendant attempts to show that prior to the killing, he was told by a drinking buddy that "The victim has killed five men and would as soon kill a man as look at him. "If the statement by the drinking buddy is offered into evidence to prove that the victim, in fact, killed the five men, the statement should be ruled inadmissible, because it is hearsay not within any recognized exception..
A defendant and his friend were walking down the street when they ran into a victim. The friend turned to the defendant and said that the victim owed him some money. The friend then stopped the victim and demanded the money. The victim refused to pay the money. The friend suddenly said to the defendant, "Give me your gun. I'm going to blow this lowlife away. " The defendant gave his friend his gun, and the friend shot the victim to death. As the friend and the defendant were about to leave, the defendant turned to his friend and said, "Let me have my gun back. I think the creep's still alive. " The defendant then fired two more shots into the victim's body. Unknown to the defendant, the victim was already dead. Which of the following is the most serious crime that the defendant can be convicted of? Murder..
Police received information from a reliable informant that a defendant would be extorting money from a victim. The informant gave the police explicit details about the extortion scheme: the defendant would be calling the victim from a public phone booth on a particular street corner on a certain date and time to make the extortionist demand. Without notif'ing the telephone company or seeking a warrant, the police installed an eavesdropping device on the public phone. At the time on the date specified by the informant, the defendant phoned the victim from the telephone booth and said, "You better pay me $5,000 by next week or I'll kill you and your family. " The defendant provided additional details about how and where to make the payoff. Based on the taped conversation, the police arrested the defendant and charged him with extortion. Prior to trial, the defendant's attorney moves to exclude the taped conversation from evidence. The defense motion should be granted, because the police did not secure a warrant before installing the eavesdropping device..
A defendant was smoking marijuana as he was driving home from work one afternoon. A police officer approached him on the freeway and stopped the car to issue a citation for speeding. As the defendant handed the officer his driver's license, the officer smelled burnt marijuana, saw the joint, and saw an open envelope on the seat next to the defendant containing a substance that looked like marijuana. The officer ordered the defendant out of the car, arrested him for unlawful possession of marijuana. The officer then searched the defendant and found a sealed envelope in the defendant's back pocket. Without asking the defendant's permission, the officer opened the envelope and discovered that it contained cocaine. The officer then unzipped one of the jacket pockets on the jacket the defendant was wearing and found more cocaine and arrested the defendant for possession of cocaine. The defendant was taken to the police station and immediately escorted to an interrogation room. He was given his Miranda warnings, waived his rights, and gave a statement admitting to possession of cocaine and marijuana. Which of the following is a correct statement of the applicable legal principles regarding the search of the defendant? When a police officer has made a lawful custodial arrest of an individual, he may, as a contemporaneous incident of that arrest, search the person of the individual..
A defendant hated his boss, who had recently demoted him to a less prestigious position. Late one afternoon, the defendant saw his boss walking down the hallway. The defendant pulled out a gun and fired four shots at his boss. Although none of the bullets directly hit his boss, one of the shots ricocheted against a wall and struck the boss in the head, killing him instantly. What is the most serious crime that the defendant can be convicted of? Murder..
A defendant was arrested at an airport when the small suitcase he was carrying was found to contain heroin. The defendant, who did not challenge the legality of the airport search, was subsequently prosecuted for possession of heroin. At trial, the defendant testified on his own behalf and said that the suitcase belonged to his girlfriend who was accompanying the defendant when he was arrested. The girlfriend died in a skydiving accident two weeks before the defendant's trial. Moreover, the defendant testified that although he was a former heroin addict, he had not used any heroin in the past three years. On cross-examination, the prosecuting attorney asked the defendant to roll up the sleeves of his shirt and exhibit his arms to see if there were any needle marks. This request is permissible, because such evidence is relevant to the defendant's credibility..
A defendant, who was an indigent, was arrested and charged with possession of less than one ounce of marijuana. Under the relevant state statute, possession of less than one ounce of marijuana is a misdemeanor, punishable by a maximum of one year in jail and/or a fine of $500. At trial, the defendant pleaded not guilty and requested that an attorney be appointed to represent him. The trial judge refused to honor the defendant's request for an attorney. If the defendant is subsequently found guilty, which of the following is the most severe sentence that can constitutionally be imposed? A $500 fine..
A man was at a hotel bar having a drink when the defendant approached him and sat down next to the man. The man was attracted to the defendant and immediately engaged her in conversation. After having a few drinks together, the man invited the defendant back to his room for a nightcap. Sensing that the man was wealthy, the defendant agreed to accompany him back to his hotel room. When they got back to the room, the man excused himself to go to the bathroom. While he was inside the bathroom, the defendant took some narcotics from her purse and placed them in the man's drink. The defendant realized that the narcotics were a strong sedative and hoped that they would cause the man to pass out. She then planned to steal his wallet and jewelry. Upon returning from the bathroom, the man proceeded to finish his drink. Shortly thereafter, the man passed out. While he was unconscious, the defendant took his watch off his wrist and pulled the wallet out of his pants. She took $300 in cash from the wallet. As she was leaving, the defendant noticed that the man had a diamond earring in his left ear. She then ripped out the earring from his ear and stole that, as well. The man suffered a cut in his earlobe when the defendant snatched the earring. Which of the following crimes should the defendant be convicted of? Robbery..
In most states, the division of homicide into degrees is distinguished according to which of the following? the defendant's state of mind at the time the killing was committed..
A defendant decided to rob a bank. She used an unloaded gun in the robbeiy. The defendant approached the bank teller, pointed her unloaded pistol at him and said, "This is a stick-up. . . give me your money and no one will get hurt. "While the teller was handing the money to the defendant, the victim, a bank patron who was in line, saw the defendant pointing the gun at the teller and fainted. He fell backward and cracked his head on the marble floor. This resulted in a fatal head injury. Moments later, the defendant left the bank with the money. Thereafter, the defendant was arrested. If the defendant is prosecuted for felony murder and acquitted, the most likely reason will be because there was not a sufficient connection between the victim's death and the robbery..
A man is on trial for securities fraud. He takes the stand to testify in his own behalf. On direct examination, the man's attorney proffers evidence of his good character. Upon objection by the prosecution, which of the following statements is correct? The defendant may introduce evidence to show honesty..
After the close of the pleadings both plaintiff and defendant duly made motions for summary judgment. Which of the following statements is correct? If plaintiff's proofs submitted in support of his motion for summary judgment are not contradicted and if plaintiff's proofs show that no genuine issue of material fact exists, summary judgment will be granted even if defendant's answer denied plaintiff's complaint..
A defendant was charged with illegally selling arms to a foreign country without a government license. During the trial, the defendant admitted selling the weapons, which included missiles, rocket launchers, bazookas, and ammunition, to agents of the foreign country. In his defense, however, the defendant testified that he did not sell the arms as a private citizen, but rather for his employer, a federal agency. In rebutting the defendant's testimony, the government called a high-ranking official from the federal agency to the stand. He testified that if the defendant were, in fact, a member of the agency, that information would ordinarily be contained in the agency's employment records. Asked whether the defendant's employment records were on file with the agency, the official then testified, "I have searched the agency employment records diligently, but I haven't found any documentation that the defendant was employed by the agency. "Upon objection by the defendant's attorney, the official's testimony is admissible, because it shows the absence of an entry in the record of a public agency..
While on a camping trip, a defendant became intoxicated and decided to take a walk late at night. He was so drunk he could not find his way back to the campsite. He did, however, come across a secluded mountain cabin, in which he decided to take shelter for the night. Since the door to the cabin was locked, he broke a window and entered the structure. Once inside, he fell asleep on the sofa. When he awoke the next morning he was hungry. The defendant then found some food in the refrigerator, which he cooked and ate. Before leaving the cabin, the defendant looked around to see if there was anything worth stealing. He opened the door to the bedroom and found a gold watch on the nightstand. He placed the watch in his pocket and left the cabin. The defendant was later arrested and charged with burglary. The defendant's strongest defense would be that he did not have the requisite intent at the time of the breaking and entering..
A plaintiff filed an action in federal district court and served the defendant with the summons and complaint. The defendant moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. Instead of opposing the motion to dismiss, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the action and filed a new action, alleging the same claims but also addressing the pleading defects outlined in the defendant's motion to dismiss. The defendant then moved to dismiss the second action, and the plaintiff again voluntarily dismissed the second action instead of filing opposition papers. The plaintiff then filed a third action, alleging the same claims but also including additional allegations that were responsive to the defendant's second motion. The defendant has moved to dismiss the third action; the plaintiff opposes the motion. Is the court likely to grant the defendant's motion? Yes, because the plaintiff's previously dismissed actions asserting the same claims dismissed actions asserting the same claims operate as an adjudication on the merits..
A defendant went to a convenience store intending to rob it. The defendant had a gun inside his coat pocket. When the defendant entered the store, the owner saw that he had his hand in his coat pocket. Although the owner did not actually see the gun, he noticed a bulge in the defendant's coat pocket. Paranoid because of a rash of recent robberies, the owner said, "Please don't hurt me 11 do anything you want. " The owner then fainted and fell to the floor. The defendant walked behind the counter and opened the cash register. He took the money from the register and left the store. If the defendant is charged with robbery, he should be found not guilty, because the defendant did not make any threat of force..
A plaintiff sued a defendant for injuries that the plaintiff suffered when he was struck by the defendant's car. At trial, the plaintiff testified that he was walking across the street inside a crosswalk at the time the defendant's car hit him. This action takes place in a jurisdiction that has a statute in effect requiring all motorists to stop and permit pedestrians to cross streets at designated crosswalks. The defendant contended that the plaintiff ran into the street outside the crosswalk. Furthermore, the defendant testified that he immediately applied his brakes when he saw the plaintiff dart into the street, but couldn't stop his car in time to avoid hitting him. In support of the defendant's testimony, the defendant calls a neighbor to testify that she has observed the plaintiff frequently during the years that she has lived on that street, and that the plaintiff "always crosses the street outside the crosswalk. "The neighbor's testimony is likely to be admitted, because it is probative of the plaintiff's habit of crossing the street outside the crosswalk..
A defendant shot and killed a victim at close range with a revolver. After the shooting death, the defendant was arrested and charged with first-degree murder. In this jurisdiction, first-degree murder is defined as "knowingly or willfully causing the death of another human being. "Which of the following situations, if believed by the jury, would most likely result in the defendant's acquittal of the first-degree murder charge? The defendant intended to kill himself, but the bullet grazed his head and struck and killed the victim..
A defendant was wearing a black leather jacket when he entered a deli for lunch. He placed his jacket on a coat rack located in the front of the deli. After his meal, the defendant picked up a similar black leather jacket, believing it to be his own. The jacket he took, however, belonged to another customer. The defendant left the deli and walked a short distance before realizing he had taken the wrong jacket by mistake. He then returned to the deli and placed the jacket back on the coat rack. He found his own jacket, which had been partially hidden under a stack of other coats. If the defendant were arrested and charged with larceny of the other customer's jacket, he will most likely be acquitted because he lacked the requisite state of mind..
"An assault is an unlawful attempt, with or without present ability, to commit a battery on the person of another. It is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment of up to six months. "A defendant was a lawyer who worked in a law firm located in the state. The defendant, who had a reputation of being a prankster, decided to play a practical joke on the senior partner of the law firm. The defendant donned a cowboy mask and entered the senior partner's office. As the senior partner was talking on the phone with his back to the door, the defendant pulled out a toy cap gun and said, "This is a stickup . . . give me your wallet or I'll shoot. " When the senior partner turned around to face the defendant, he pulled the trigger of the gun. This caused the toy pistol to make a loud noise. Although the senior partner was not frightened, he fired the defendant because of the incident, citing unprofessional conduct. The defendant was subsequently charged with criminal assault under the above mentioned statute. At trial, the defendant testified that he was only playing a practical joke on the senior partner and was trying to scare him as a harmless prank. If the jury believes the defendant, they should find him not guilty, because the defendant did not intend to cause physical injury to the senior partner..
One evening, a defendant set fire to an occupied house. As a result of the blaze, the homeowner's daughter was killed. The defendant was charged with felony murder on the first count and arson on the second count of the two-count indictment. The jury found the defendant guilty on the first count, but returned a not guilty verdict on the second count. The defendant's attorney's motion to set aside the guilty verdict on the felony murder charge will be granted, because the verdicts are legally inconsistent and should lead to an acquittal of both charges..
A defendant was charged with and tried for murder. At trial, the defendant testified that he had acted in self-defense. The trial court instructed the jury that the defendant had the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he had acted in self-defense. The defendant objected, arguing that this instruction violated the constitutional requirement that the prosecution prove the offense beyond a reasonable doubt. Did the trial court's instruction violate the defendant's federal constitutional rights? No, because due process does not preclude requiring a defendant to prove self-defense by a preponderance of the evidence..
A victim was standing on a street corner waiting to make a drug buy. The drug dealer was always late, so the victim continued to wait outside in the freezing cold weather because he needed a quick fix. Suddenly a car rounded the street corner and a shot rang out. The victim slumped over and fell to the sidewalk. Immediately after being shot and before he died, the victim exclaimed, "The defendant did it!" The defendant was indicted and is now on trial for the victim's murder. Based on these facts alone, the admissibility of the victim's statement should be determined by the judge, without assistance from the jury..
Dr. A. Praise is hired to perform a court-ordered evaluation of a defendant in a criminal case. She discusses the purpose of the evaluation with the defendant who then says he does not want to cooperate. According to the Specialty Guidelines for Forensic Psychology, Dr. Praise should: postpone the evaluation and advise the defendant to contact his attorney..
When evaluating a defendant’s competence to stand trial, the focus of the evaluation is on the defendant’s: ability to comprehend the charges against him/her..
A psychologist is appointed by the Court to examine a defendant. The psychologist should begin the evaluation by informing the defendant that anything that is discussed maybe talked about in open court.
